Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
precedence: bulk
Subject: Risks Digest 32.70

RISKS-LIST: Risks-Forum Digest  Saturday 5 June 2021  Volume 32 : Issue 70

ACM FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS (comp.risks)
Peter G. Neumann, founder and still moderator

***** See last item for further information, disclaimers, caveats, etc. *****
This issue is archived at <http://www.risks.org> as
  <http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/32.70>
The current issue can also be found at
  <http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt>

  Contents
WARNING to RISKS readers (PGN)
Tesla activates in-car camera to monitor drivers using Autopilot
  (TechCrunch)
Tesla brings the strategies pioneered by Apple to the auto industry
  (WashPost)
Tesla apologizes after man in S.China locked in his car due to power failure
  (Global Times)
A "lethal" weaponized drone "hunted down a human target" without being told
  to for the first time (Business Insider)
AI in medicine (Statnews via Wendy Grossman)
AI Drone May Have Acted on Its Own in Attacking Fighters, U.N. Says
  (NYTimes)
Don't End Up on This Artificial Intelligence Hall of Shame (WiReD)
Bug in Siemens PLCs.... (The Hacker News bia Robert Mathews)
Cyberattack closes JBS meat-packing facilities in Canada, U.S. and Australia
  (CBC)
How to Negotiate with Ransomware Hackers (The New Yorker)
Malware Can Use This Trick to Bypass Ransomware Defense in Antivirus
  Solutions (The Hacker News)
This $5 billion insurance company likes to talk up its AI.
  Now it's in a mess over it.  (cnn.com)
Steamship authority targeted in ransomware attack
  (The Martha's Vineyard Times)
Cybersecurity insurance, if you can get it (knowbe4)
Supreme Court narrows cybercrime law (The Hill)
High-tech policing: Suspect identified after posting pic of his hand
  holding cheese (LinkedIn)
Our digital pasts weren't supposed to be weaponized like this (NYTimes)
Will the Excelsior Pass, New York's Vaccine Passport, CatchOn? (NYTimes)
How do you know this isn't a fake posting? (Rob Slade)
Amazon "stealing" your data is not the same as what Comcast is doingxo
  (Lauren Weinstein)
Amazon Sidewalk Poised to Sweep You Into Its Mesh (ThreatPost)
Emergency Amazon (Rob Slade)
Amazon home devices may now use part of your WAN uplink for a mesh network
  with neighbors' Amazon Devices (Newser)
FCC's emergency connectivity funds ineligible for school and library
  self-provisioned networks (Broadband Breakfast)
E-Commerce liability cases could open floodgates for lawsuites,
  panelists agree (Broadband Breakfast)
Norton Antivirus Is Now a Cryptominer; Wait, what (Review Geek)
The Mayor of Reno Is Betting Big on the Blockchain (WiReD)
Oximeters used to be designed for equity. What happened? (WiReD)
One blessing of the Cybersecurity Executive Order (Hagai Bar-El)
CDC loosened mask guidance to encourage vaccination -- it failed
  spectacularly (Beth Mole, Ars Technica)
Deter prying eyes by locking your own letters (Atlas Obscura)
Facebook systematically censoring "vaccine concerns", regardless of
  truthfulness (Project Veritas)
Facebook suspends Trump for 2 years in response to Oversight Board ruling
  (WashPost)
Google made it nearly impossible for users to keep their location private
  (Business Insider)
Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed
  Systems (Ross Anderson, reviewed by Sven Dietrich)
Re: Risks: Colonial Pipeline accused of negligence in proposed class action
  (John Bechtel)
Re: Florida governor signs law to block *deplatforming* of Florida
  politicians (San Steingold)
Re: Irish Health Service hit by ransomware (Patrick O'Beirne)
Re: Why GitHub Refuses to Provide Key Evidence to a Man on Death Row
  (Stephen E. Bacher)
Re: NoScript is immoral? (Eli the Bearded, Kaufmann, John Levine)
Re: Security of the IMPs (Henry Baker)
Re: Truth, Lies, and Automation (Toebs Douglass)
Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2021 13:12:19 PDT
From: Peter Neumann <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: WARNING to RISKS readers

It is still taking me several hours to get rid of all the detritus in what
is being submitted to RISKS.  Office 365 is adding over a hundred lines of
cruft in headers to each message.  All of the encoded characters created by
different mail systems have to be dealt with separately.  Therefore, as a
cruelty to readers instead of cruelty to myself, the next issue will be RAW
RECEIVED TEXT.  Perhaps I will first remove the Office 365 cruft on most of
the messages, but leave them in for the lead message just for kicks.  This
will save me a few hours, but perhaps give you some ideas of why this is so
painful, and how contributors might be able to simplify my efforts with just
a little awareness of what is being produced.

Dan Jacobson has kindly offered a bunch of excellent suggestions, only some
of which I have been able to adopt.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 12:23:54 -0400 (EDT)
From: ACM TechNews <technews-editor@acm.org>
Subject: Tesla activates in-car camera to monitor drivers using Autopilot
  (TechCrunch)

Kirsten Korosec, TechCrunch, 27 May 2021, via ACM TechNews, 2 Jun 2021

Electric-vehicle manufacturer Tesla has turned the in-car camera in its
Model 3 and Model Y vehicles into a monitor for when its Autopilot advanced
driver assistance system is in use. A Tesla software update specified that
the ``cabin camera above the rearview mirror can now detect and alert driver
inattentiveness while Autopilot is engaged,'' and that the system can save
or transit information [only] if data sharing is intentionally enabled.
Tesla has been criticized for failing to activate its in-vehicle driver
monitoring technology amid growing evidence that owners were misusing
Autopilot.  Jake Fisher (*Consumer Reports*) said, ``If the new system
proves effective, it could help prevent distraction and be a major
improvement for safety -- potentially saving lives.''

https://orange.hosting.lsoft.com/trk/click?ref=znwrbbrs9_6-2b464x22b90ex067267&

  [I hope someone inside the Tesla organization reads RISKS, and suggests
  that this monitor needs to be super-reliable, survivable, resilient -- and
  non-hackable -- because it is ultimately a single point of failure whose
  failure is likely to result in nasty lawsuits.  PGN

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 15:24:56 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Tesla brings the strategies pioneered by Apple to the auto industry
  (WashPost)

Tesla is bringing the strategies pioneered by Apple to the auto
industry. Consumers are learning that's not always a good thing.

SAN FRANCISCO -- Tesla released its futuristic *Full Self-Driving* package
last year to great fanfare, criticism and the usual stream of video uploads
showing off cars that could seemingly drive themselves.

Then something strange happened.

The electric-vehicle giant revoked access for some drivers, it said.  Tesla
CEO Elon Musk announced on Twitter in March that some users who had received
access to the company's most advanced driver-assistance features “did not
pay sufficient attention to the road.” Tesla did not say how it made the
determination or who among the feature's 2,000 beta testers — who shelled
out thousands for the package that Tesla now priced at $10,000 — would lose
access.  [...]

The cars' groundbreaking over-the-air updates mean users can be subject to
sudden performance changes if products become out of date — like battery
throttling for which Apple has come under fire. Tesla's unique systems have
also proved difficult for government authorities investigating crashes to
decode, a problem that echoes federal authorities' difficulty unlocking
Apple devices.   [...]

Months after buying a used Tesla Model S for nearly $46,000, Harpreet Singh
began to notice the car wouldn't travel far enough on a single charge to
cover his work trips frequently stretching more than 200 miles.

Tesla had taken about 40 miles of range off his used Model S, which began
with 265 miles, in what Tesla said was an effort to protect the battery. The
update also slowed down charging times, Singh said. Tesla ultimately agreed
to replace what it later concluded was a faulty battery, but at the expense
of what Singh has found is slower acceleration.

After the car and its new battery were working properly, Singh began to
dread system updates, because they introduced new problems like the shorter
range and decreased charging rates.

Singh said he thinks about it like other tech updates. “I'm so comfortable
with Windows 8. … Why do I have to change to Windows 10? And then everything
breaks,” said Singh, 33, of Cypress, Tex. “Same thing here. … They can do
anything to do it.” [...]

Full self-driving features are also not transferrable between cars, meaning
an owner who has shelled out $10,000 for the software would have to buy it
for their next Tesla as well.

Musk has said, however, that Tesla will look into upping the trade-in value
for a vehicle with Full Self-Driving, after some owners complained about
having to purchase it twice.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/05/14/tesla-apple-tech/

------------------------------

From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 13:18:36 -1000
Subject: Tesla apologizes after man in S.China locked in his car
  due to power failure (Global Times)

https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202106/1225359.shtml

------------------------------

Date: May 31, 2021 6:17:29 JST
From: Paul Davey <pd@pdc.co.uk>
Subject: A "lethal" weaponized drone "hunted down a human target" without
  being told to for the first time (Business Insider)

https://www.businessinsider.com/killer-drone-hunted-down-human-target-without-being-told-un-2021-5?r=US&IR=T

A "lethal" weaponized drone "hunted down a human target" without being told
to for the first time, according to a UN report seen by the New Scientist.

The March 2020 incident saw a KARGU-2 quadcopter autonomously attack a human
during a conflict between Libyan government forces and a breakaway military
faction, led by the Libyan National Army's Khalifa Haftar, the Daily Star
reported.

The Turkish-built KARGU-2, a deadly attack drone designed for asymmetric
warfare and anti-terrorist operations, targeted one of Haftar's soldiers
while he tried to retreat, according to the paper.

  [Also noted by Amnos Shapir.
    For those who were wondering "what can possibly go wrong" -- it already
    did,
  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 11:11:57 +0100
From: "Wendy M. Grossman" <wendyg@pelicancrossing.net>
Subject: AI in medicine (Statnews)

Statnews reports on a study of 400 AI models proposed during the pandemic
for spotting illness and predicting which patients are most likely to have
serious illness...and finds that all of them are flawed in surprisingly
obvious ways. Underlying problems of methodology is the paucity of large,
available, diverse data sets.
https://www.statnews.com/2021/06/02/machine-learning-ai-methodology-research-flaws/

The great thing about machine learning is it does RISKS at scale.  WG

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2021 17:45:25 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: AI Drone May Have Acted on Its Own in Attacking Fighters, U.N. Says
  (NYTimes)

A United Nations report suggested that a drone, used against militia
fighters in Libya's civil war, may have selected a target autonomously.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/03/world/africa/libya-drone.html

  [Also noted by Jan Wolitzky,  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2021 19:46:43 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Don't End Up on This Artificial Intelligence Hall of Shame
  (WiReD)

A list of incidents that caused, or nearly caused, harm aims to prompt
developers to think more carefully about the tech they create.

https://www.wired.com/story/artificial-intelligence-hall-shame/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 04 Jun 2021 12:57:00 -0700
From: "Robert Mathews (OSIA)" <mathews@hawaii.edu>
Subject: Bug in Siemens PLCs....

*"A New Bug in Siemens PLCs Could Let Hackers Run Malicious Code Remotely"*
Ravie Lakshmanan, *The Hacker News*, 31 May 2021

https://thehackernews.com/2021/05/a-new-bug-in-siemens-plcs-could-let.html--

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 06:45:23 -0600
From: "Matthew Kruk" <mkrukg@gmail.com>
Subject: Cyberattack closes JBS meat-packing facilities in Canada,
  U.S. and Australia (CBC)

https://www.cbc.ca/news/business/jbs-meat-cyberattack-1.6048942

A ransomware attack against Brazilian meat-packing giant JBS has disrupted
production in the U.S., Canada and Australia.  JBS is the world's largest
meatpacker and the attack caused its Australian operations to shut down on
Monday and stopped livestock slaughter at its plants in several U.S. states
and the company's facility near Brooks, Alta.

The ransomware attack follows one last month on Colonial Pipeline, the
largest fuel pipeline in the U.S., which crippled fuel delivery for several
days in the southeastern part of the country.

  [Jan Wolitzky noted
     Ransomware disrupts meat plants in latest attack on critical
     U.S. business
<https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/01/business/meat-plant-cyberattack-jbs.html
  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 12:25:54 -0400
From: Jan Wolitzky <jan.wolitzky@gmail.com>
Subject: How to Negotiate with Ransomware Hackers (The New Yorker)

Rachel Monroe, Annals of Technology, 7 Jun 2021

Kurtis Minder finds the cat-and-mouse energy of outsmarting criminal
syndicates deeply satisfying, 31 May 2021

https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/06/07/how-to-negotiate-with-ransomware-hackers

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 10:03:23 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Malware Can Use This Trick to Bypass Ransomware Defense
  in Antivirus Solutions ()

Researchers have disclosed significant security weaknesses in popular
software applications that could be abused to deactivate their protections
and take control of allow-listed applications to perform nefarious
operations on behalf of the malware to defeat anti-ransomware defenses.

The twin attacks, detailed <https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3431286> by
academics from the University of Luxembourg and the University of London,
are aimed at circumventing the protected folder feature offered by antivirus
programs to encrypt files (aka "Cut-and-Mouse") and disabling their
real-time protection by simulating mouse "click" events (aka "Ghost
Control").

"Antivirus software providers always offer high levels of security, and they
are an essential element in the everyday struggle against criminals," said
<https://wwwen.uni.lu/university/news/latest_news/researchers_discover_fix_vulnerability_in_antivirus_software>
Prof. Gabriele Lenzini, chief scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center for
Security, Reliability, and Trust at the University of Luxembourg. "But they
are competing with criminals which now have more and more resources, power,
and dedication."

Put differently, shortcomings in malware mitigation software could not just
permit unauthorized code to turn off their protection features, design flaws
in Protected Folders solution provided by antivirus vendors could be abused
by, say, ransomware to change the contents of files using an app that's
provisioned write access to the folder and encrypt user data, or a wipeware
to irrevocably destroy personal files of victims. [...]

https://thehackernews.com/2021/06/malware-can-use-this-trick-to-bypass.html

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 11:59:46 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: This $5 billion insurance company likes to talk up its AI.
  Now it's in a mess over it.  (cnn.com)

https://edition.cnn.com/2021/05/27/tech/lemonade-ai-insurance/index.html

"But in Lemonade's IPO paperwork, filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission last June, the company wrote that AI Jim 'handles the entire
claim through resolution in approximately a third of cases, paying the
claimant or declining the claim without human intervention.'"

Lemonade walked-back that statement -- post-IPO, and after Twitter blasted
the brand for claiming their AI 'Jim' dispensed claim adjustment based on
facial recognition.

Expect one or more lawsuits from investors who drank the lemonade without
reading the label.

Risk: Overtrust reliance on AI business solution capabilities and commercial
viability.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 15:17:04 PDT From: Peter Neumann <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: Steamship authority targeted in ransomware attack
  (The Martha's Vineyard Times)

https://www.mvtimes.com/2021/06/02/ssa-targeted-ransomware-attack/

  [Wiped out the ability to run operations online.  Long delays.]

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 10:39:32 -0700
From: Paul Burke <box1320@gmail.com>
Subject: Cybersecurity insurance, if you can get it (knowbe4)

Article from IT security consultant, about ransomware insurance:
https://blog.knowbe4.com/cybersecurity-insurance-landscape-is-fundamentally-changing-right-now

 - "Ransomware has been so successful in compromising victims and getting
   big payouts that it has led to a rapid, fundamental change in the
   cybersecurity industry. Many previous cybersecurity insurance players are
   getting out of the industry or refusing to insure for ransomware and
   other cyber crime. Those that are left are charging more, insuring for
   less and requiring proof of far stronger controls before a policy is
   issued...

 - They contract with experienced companies that respond to hundreds to
   thousands of ransomware events a year...

 - Ransomware gangs had obviously searched for and found a victim's
   insurance policy after breaking into the victim's environment...
   ransomware gang would respond with the maximum figure they knew the
   victim was insured for. So, a hint to anyone who has a cybersecurity
   policy, make sure that document is not online or specially protect it...

 - They will ascertain your current risk, make recommendations, and
   constantly monitor your status. You need someone to read your logs or
   patch your computers, your friendly cybersecurity insurance company may
   be able to do that for you..."

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2021 10:21:14 PDT
From: Peter Neumann <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: Supreme Court narrows cybercrime law (The Hill)

Chris Mills Rodrigo, 3 Jun 2021

https://thehill.com/policy/technology/556686-supreme-court-narrows-cybercrime-law

The Supreme Court limited the scope of a crucial federal computer fraud law
Thursday by overturning the conviction of a former police officer accused of
misusing a government database.

The justices sided 6-3 with Georgia police sergeant Nathan Van Buren in his
appeal of a conviction under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.  Conservative
Justices Clarence Thomas, John Roberts and Samuel Alito dissented.

The 1986 law prohibits accessing a computer “without
authorization or exceeding authorized access."

The Justice Department had argued that Van Buren ran afoul of that law when
he took a bribe to access a woman's license plate information in what was a
2015 FBI sting operation.  The former officer had argued that that
interpretation was too broad because he did have legitimate access to the
database, even if he misused it.

If simply violating the terms of a system is illegal under the CFAA, his
team argued, then people could be charged for things as mundane as using
work computers for personal use.

The majority opinion, penned by Amy Coney Barrett, echoed that assessment.
"The Government's interpretation of the 'exceeds authorized access' clause
would attach criminal penalties to a breathtaking amount of commonplace
computer activity," the opinion reads. "For instance, employers commonly
state that computers and electronic devices can be used only for business
purposes. On the Government's reading, an employee who sends a personal
e-mail or reads the news using a work computer has violated the CFAA."

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 13:29:52 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: High-tech policing: Suspect identified after posting pic
  of his hand holding cheese (LinkedIn)

https://www.linkedin.com/posts/christian-quinn_innovation-technology-policy-activity-6803646475923443712-H7ph/

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2021 17:46:21 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Our digital pasts weren't supposed to be weaponized like this
  (NYTimes)

A recent firing at The Associated Press is the latest example of the way in
which our digital pasts are never far from the present, despite what early
internet evangelists thought.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/29/technology/emily-wilder-firing-ap.html

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 20:26:58 -0400
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Will the Excelsior Pass, New York's Vaccine Passport, CatchOn?

More than 1 million Excelsior passes have been downloaded since they were introduced, but officials are hoping they will be adopted more widely.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/01/nyregion/excelsior-pass-vaccine.html

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 10:19:00 -0700
From: Rob Slade <rslade@gmail.com>
Subject: How do you know this isn't a fake posting? (Rob Slade)

90% of Americans think they are better than average at detecting *fake
news*, Which is impossible, and they aren't as good as they think they are.

https://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_077b962ec93232039cadc784d15124a5

Krueger-Dunning lives ...

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 30 May 2021 08:42:59 -0700
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: Amazon "stealing" your data is not the same as what Comcast is
  doing

There is some confusion about what Comcast is doing when it sets up public
Wi-Fi using customers' in-home modems, vis-a-vis what Amazon's new data
"stealing" scheme is doing. There are big differences.

1) Comcast is setting up essentially a separate virtual LAN for the
   public Wi-Fi that does not interact with your normal data flows.

2) Comcast is adjusting for that secondary usage so that it has no
   impact on your usage costs or usable bandwidth.

Amazon is just taking your data without your affirmative permission, to
service their other customers.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 13:59:27 -0400
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Amazon Sidewalk Poised to Sweep You Into Its Mesh (ThreatPost)

https://threatpost.com/amazon-sidewalk-to-sweep-you-into-its-mesh/166581/

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 10:43:33 -0700
From: Rob Slade <rslade@gmail.com>
Subject: Emergency Amazon

Amazon is partnering with aid organizations, including the Red Cross, to get
disaster relief materials to where they are needed in a disaster.
https://lite.cnn.com/en/article/h_bc341a644b497f6388fd9bfdbc8a6db3

On the one hand, it's great to see a giant corporation helping out.

On the other hand, does Amazon become a single point of failure for
disaster relief?

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2021 07:32:38 -0400
From: Bob Gezelter <gezelter@rlgsc.com>
Subject: Amazon home devices may now use part of your WAN uplink
  for a mesh network with neighbors' Amazon Devices (Newser)

An interesting and unsettling development on multiple levels. First, there
is the technical issue of whether the implementation is truly secure,
including whether information can be deduced from such activity.  Second,
there is a question of propriety. Is it desirable for that level of personal
observation to be transmitted outside the residence.  Thirdly, is taking any
amount of my paid for bandwidth legal and acceptable? An additional, and
perhaps more important question is whether such a feature should be enabled
by default. NOTE: The referenced article contains a number of web references
to The Guardian, Ars Technica, and other mainstream sources.

https://www.newser.com/story/306874/amazon-is-about-to-take-and-share-a-slice-of-your-internet.html

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 14:17:53 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: FCC's emergency connectivity funds ineligible for school and
  library self-provisioned networks (Broadband Breakfast)

But when the rules on how to spend the money were finalized on May 10th, the
FCC's Report and Order declared that schools and libraries could not use
Connectivity Funds to build self-provisioned networks, but instead could
only use the funds to purchase Wi-Fi hotspots, modems, routers, and
connected devices, such as laptop computers and tablets.

The one exception in which schools and libraries can use Connectivity Funds
to build self-provisioned networks is in “areas where no service is
available for purchase,” based on data self-reported by private ISPs.

The Report and Order indicates the agency was not convinced allowing schools
and libraries to build their own networks with the funds would be consistent
with the goals Congress intended for the program, as the language in the
Rescue Plan states that the Connectivity Fund is limited to the purchase of
eligible equipment or advanced telecommunications and information services,
as defined here.

What's striking about that FCC interpretation is that it is completely at
odds with what the Biden Administration has been espousing in the American
Jobs Plan: that building publicly-owned community networks and investing in
future-proof infrastructure are a crucial part of closing the digital
divide. This FCC decision is a recipe for cutting students off from
broadband Internet access as soon as Congressional appropriations run out
rather than using those funds for solutions that will operate sustainably
into the future.

Not Trying to Rock the Big Telco Boat

When the Connectivity Fund was first introduced, smaller Internet Service
Providers, public interest groups, and education advocates petitioned the
FCC to allow for the federal funds headed to schools and libraries to be
eligible for use to build school and community networks.

The Schools, Health and Libraries Broadband Coalition; the American Library
Association; and the Consortium for School Networking all found that
self-provisioned networks are the most cost-effective way to permanently
close the homework gap. They advocated for giving schools and libraries the
most flexibility to spend these dollars and maintained that local
administrators are best positioned to decide how to bridge gaps in
connectivity.

Instead, the Connectivity Fund is now set to give limited remote learning
funds to the same corporate ISPs that gave rise to the homework gap in the
first place. The program gives a strong preference to funding hotspots
provided by existing wireless mobile service providers, mainly AT&T,
Verizon, and T-Mobile. (In fact, AT&T, Verizon, and CenturyLink all lobbied
the agency to disqualify [pdf] self-provisioning from being eligible for ECF
support.)

The agency has also announced that the program will be forward-looking;
therefore, lower priority will be placed on reimbursing schools and
libraries for equipment purchased over the past year to expand existing
networks or build new networks to serve students and library patrons.

https://broadbandbreakfast.com/2021/05/fccs-emergency-connectivity-funds-ineligible-for-school-and-library-self-provisioned-networks/

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 14:20:16 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: E-Commerce liability cases could open floodgates for lawsuits,
  panelists agree (Broadband Breakfast)

Amazon is entangled in local legal cases that could set off lawsuits for
third-party products sold on its platform.

May 27, 2021—Emerging legal rulings holding online retailers
liable for defective third-party products could cause a ripple effect of
lawsuits if more courts across the nation adopt that position, according to
a panel of legal experts at an event hosted by the Information Technology &
Innovation Foundation on Wednesday.

Product liability law has traditionally held that the
“seller” of products are responsible for the defects
those products may have. You buy a curling iron from Target, for instance,
not directly from Dyson.  Target is the seller, and in the case of product
defection, Target may be the responsible party.

But Amazon has avoided the legal distinction of seller until recently by
arguing that they merely act as the middleman in transactions, and that when
items are purchased from its website, business is done directly with the
manufacturer, which would be responsible in any legal proceeding. Some have
argued that this insulation from liability has made e-commerce companies
like Amazon far too powerful.

But two rulings in California and one outstanding case in Texas are
challenging that assumption.

https://broadbandbreakfast.com/2021/05/e-commerce-liability-cases-could-open-floodgates-for-lawsuits-panelists-agree/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 18:08:52 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Norton Antivirus Is Now a Cryptominer; Wait, what (Review Geek)

You can't be serious. Norton 360, the somewhat-frustrating antivirus
software that comes preinstalled on many Windows computers, will soon have a
built-in Ethereum cryptominer. In its press release, NortonLifeLock says
that Norton Crypto will empower people to mine with a “brand they
trust” instead of taking risks and running “unvetted
code” on their computers. [...]

But let's be realistic for a second—the kind of people
who will use Norton Crypto probably wouldn't go out of their way
to download a spooky, “unvetted” cryptomining
software. They will only use Norton Crypto because it came preinstalled on
their computer and, at a glance, produces free money. Norton Crypto users
may not fully understand how the software works, the impact that
cryptomining has on their computer's lifespan, the tax
requirements for cryptomining, or the risks involved with crypto trading.

At its launch, Norton Crypto will only produce Ethereum, which is difficult
to mine on a single laptop or desktop. As noted by the BBC, it looks like
NortonLifeLock will get around the problem by combining miners'
computing power into a “pool” and divvying up
earnings. Problem is, it's common for crypto pools to have a 1%
fee. If Norton Crypto relies on such a system, then NortonLifeLock could
develop an extremely lucrative revenue stream at the expense of its
customers' computer hardware and naïvety.

https://www.reviewgeek.com/86346/norton-antivirus-is-now-a-cryptominer-wait-what/

News that sounds like a joke. I ran Norton SystemWorks, then Norton 360.
Gave it up because ... I forget why; maybe too heavy a footprint, too
expensive, maybe Windows Defender and such became good enough. I've never
missed it or Norton itself.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2021 00:37:33 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: The Mayor of Reno Is Betting Big on the Blockchain (WiReD)

But this spring, [Mayor] Schieve (pronounced SHE-vee) devised a potential
solution: a non-fungible token, or NFT, offered for sale on a blockchain
called Tezos. The new owner would receive a .CAD file and a video from the
artist, but the actual, physical sculpture would stay in that downtown Reno
plaza. The proceeds would raise funds for the city to clean up the whale and
preserve it for the public to enjoy. Schieve realized this type of
semi-symbolic sale might require some sweetening.  So she was contemplating
offering benefits, like tagging along on her annual trip to Burning Man with
fellow elected officials. (They don't stay overnight, Schieve adds; she did
not intend to jeopardize any future electoral campaigns with drugs and
orgies.)

The issuance of an NFT is not, at this point, such a radical thing, even for
a government. Cities and states all over have sought at times to forge links
to the blockchain. In 2018, Cleveland declared itself Blockland, though the
label seems to have waned. Wyoming has set itself up as the premier
regulatory haven for cryptocurrency, a label that other states, including
Nevada, now seek to challenge. All it takes is a few interested
businesspeople and elected officials receptive to “new ideas,” especially
those with a cypherpunk ring. That's not quite what's happening in Reno. For
Schieve, the NFT was a gateway to something else.

An early sign emerged in January, when Mayor Francis Suarez of Miami, a
person on a recent tear of throwing out tech-friendly ideas and seeing what
sticks, tweeted about turning his city into a “hub for crypto innovation”
centered around Bitcoin. Schieve was unsatisfied. “When are you going to
become a $LINK marine?” she teased in reply, cryptically to most
readers. She was referring to a blockchain platform called Chainlink,
perhaps best known for its cult following of “marines” who swarm toward any
mention of the technology on social media. Their loyalty is expressed
through ranks earned by #HODLing (that is, holding) the platform's
cryptocurrency, called Link. Apparently, the mayor of Reno was a member of
the battalion -- “link pilled,” in the community's parlance. “It was really
sweet,” Schieve says of the meme invasion her tweet inspired.

https://www.wired.com/story/mayor-reno-betting-blockchain/

------------------------------

From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 18:31:20 -0400
Subject: Oximeters used to be designed for equity. What happened?
  (WiReD)

The pandemic drew attention to the racial bias built into pulse oxes.  But
calls to create a fairer device are missing one thing: It once existed.

https://www.wired.com/story/pulse-oximeters-equity/

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2021 21:18:52 +0300
From: Hagai Bar-El <info@hbarel.com>
Subject: One blessing of the Cybersecurity Executive Order

On May 12th, the Biden administration issued an Executive Order
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/>
that was written to improve the overall security posture of software
products that the government buys from the private sector. Recent events,
such as the SolarWinds hack <https://www.crn.com/the-solarwinds-hack>,
contributed to the realization that such a move is necessary.

This Executive Order is a big deal. Of course, nothing will change
overnight, but given the size and complexity of the software industry, as
well as the overall culture behind software security (the culture of: “If
the customer doesn't see it — don't spend money on it”), an Executive Order
can probably yield the closest thing to immediate improvement that we could
reasonably wish for. The US Government is a very large customer, and all
major vendors will elect to comply with its requirements rather than cross
it all off their addressable markets.

A lot has been written on how important it is for the government to use its
buying power (if not its regulatory power) to drive vendors into shipping
more secure products. Product security suffers from what could best be
described as a /market failure/ condition, which would call for such
regulatory intervention.

To not overly repeat the mainstream media, I would like to focus on one
unique aspect of the current Executive Order, and on how it can ignite a new
trend that will change product and network security for the better.  I'll
discuss true machine-readable security documentation.

      The requirement for a Software Bill of Materials

The Executive Order requires that every software product is accompanied by a
Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) which lists the third-party software
modules that it contains. This is essential for the customer to monitor its
exposure to supply-chain vulnerabilities. Let's say that I ship software
/X/, and that my software happens to utilize a library from a third party,
say, the library /L/. I now need to worry not only about vulnerabilities
found in my software /X/, but also about vulnerabilities found in /L/. If I
am careless, I could keep maintaining my own software without incorporating
patches that are made available for /L/ by its vendor. If I am negligent, I
would even not bother to check if there are any newly discovered
vulnerabilities that need to be patched in /L/. If I am yet more negligent,
I could even keep on using a stale end-of-life /L/ library that is no longer
maintained at all.  However careless or negligent I am, the price is always
to be paid eventually by my customer. The customer might not even /know/ how
reliant his security posture is on /L/. For what he knows, he only bought
/X/. If that customer knew that its security posture relies on /L/ as well,
it could have put pressure on me to make sure I use a secure version of /L/
in my product, or not use it at all. The customer, in other words, could use
its buying power to improve what it gets. This

situation is what the SBOM provision comes to solve. It forces me to
disclose to my customers those additional dependencies that I subject them
to, so they can exert their market power towards improving the quality of
what they get.

      The bigger picture: security documentation

The SBOM is a great idea, and its benefit is yet wider. Security
documentation is in poor shape today. Security is not very well covered in
product documentation. Technical specifications, like the RFCs published by
the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), have sections titled *Security
Considerations* in them; product documentation usually doesn't. Even answers
to basic questions such as: “What are the exposure risks to the data
processed by the product?” or “What could I do as a customer to minimize the
attack surface of the product I'm using?” are seldom answered directly. If
the customer is lucky, then there are tips scattered around the manuals,
help pages, and readme files. If the customer is less lucky, as customers
usually turn out to be in such cases, he will need to deduce this from other
pieces of product information.

Any security-specific documentation that products will now have to be
shipped with is an immense improvement, and will hopefully serve as a
precedent for more. One day, hopefully, customers will require a clear
manifest of the product's attack surface: an enumeration of all interfaces
and how those are protected. Cynicism aside, I am confident that once
vendors actually produce such documents for their customers, they may become
aware of some vulnerabilities of their products of which they were not aware
before, and fix them on time.

Once we generate more security documents for products, the next step would
be making those security documents truly machine-readable.

      True machine-readable security documents

The Executive Order requires the SBOM document to be included with the
product, without prescribing the precise format this document should take,
but noting that it shall be ‘machine-readable'. Every vendor can use
whatever format it desires, and ‘machine-readable' is a definition that is
wide enough to cover any document which is not a handwritten napkin (until
it gets scanned). Nevertheless, we are likely to witness accelerated
document evolution. Thousands of vendors will have to start producing those
documents very shortly. It will take very few years, rather than decades,
for the industry to converge onto a few stable forms (most likely the forms
that will be used by the major consultancies and certification bodies, and
in light of further instructions from the government). The standardization
fora will soon enough take on the challenge of defining a standard schema,
augmenting some work that has already been done.

When this happens, we will all be one large step into the future of true
machine-readable security documentation. By ‘/true/ machine-readable' I
refer to documents that machines can actually learn from, not just parse.

Once the SBOM document uses a true machine-readable format, it will be
processed by risk management software packages. Such packages will take this
input, along with assessment and prioritization from tools like /Kenna/ or
/VulnDB/, to draw a more accurate risk posture for the organization, based
on the newly learned dependencies. Introducing automation into the process
will also force the vendors into keeping those SBOM documents accurate and
updated.

The prevalence of security documents that are truly machine-readable is a
big deal. We are not just talking about a security document that is read by
a management app instead of by a person; we are talking about a step in the
direction of reducing one of the biggest headaches of security monitoring
configuration: discovery.

        A headache called discovery

The year is 1997, and I get to help improve the security of a large
organization. One big challenge at the time was the connection of desktops
using modems that were left in answer mode when unattended. I came prepared
with instructions and scripts for securing those modems.  Soon enough I
learned that there was no place in the organization where all those modems
were even registered. The one-month “secure the modems” project started with
3.5 weeks of running war-dialers — bots that dial all extensions to create
the list of active modems, with just one short week left for actually
securing them. Today we barely use modems, but corporate networks grow
faster than anyone can keep record, and the trend (at least in tech
companies) is to not restrict adoption of new technologies by people, unless
necessary. Be it software packages, web services, connected devices or
modems, discovery is always a challenge, and the place where many balls get
dropped.

*Much of the unaddressed attack surface in large systems is caused not by
vulnerabilities of which you are unaware, but rather by functionality of
which you are unaware.* (No point Googling it; I made it up.)

Having mechanisms in place that enforce rigorous record-keeping of systems
and their dependencies might not count as the latest core security tech, but
can certainly prevent many security incidents.

      Beyond SBOM

Once we get into the habit of deploying systems that come with written
manifests of their capabilities, there is no reason to stop at the SBOM.
Some people suggest an intuitive extension into what they call a *Bill of
Behaviors*, and one can easily think of other security-related properties
that vendors could report about their systems. So much heuristics are used
by security monitoring tools just because there is no clear statement of
what an expected behavior of a system is. Using such heuristics not only
implies missing alerts, but it also costs us in reduced
sensitivity. Heuristics-based security monitors are configured for reduced
sensitivity to overcome false-alerts; false-alerts that could easily kill
any deployment of a security monitoring tool. Anyone deploying security
monitoring tools will tell you that the Achilles heel of those tools is not
in the quality of their monitoring technology, but in the complexity of the
configuration management that is required to deploy them effectively. By
targeting this complexity, we strengthen the weakest link.

Once true machine-readable security docs appear, and some standard for them
emerges, security monitoring systems will happily start reading them. We
will enjoy less heuristics involved in assessing what packages an installed
piece of software /may/ contain within it, or what network traffic is
/reasonable/ to see. Finally, once the overall security posture of a system
is more deterministic and less reliant on heuristics, there will be an
incentive for vendors to exceed the requirements of Executive Orders, and
provide more such machine-readable manifests. This will assure them that
their systems are not generating false alarms by security monitoring tools.

        What about IoT?

So far, we've discussed typical corporate IT networks. Once the trend of
machine-readable security documentation gains traction, it may also be
adopted into IoT, where its value will be yet magnified.

In the IoT space, heuristics are more prevalent. It's a relatively new
domain where standards are fewer and fragmentation rules. There are good
companies out there that built complete business models around trying to
identify what's running on an IoT network; even just recognizing what types
of devices are involved. Security-wise, the IoT space today is where the IT
space was two decades ago, with frequent use of weak authentication, use of
old software stacks, and over-reliance on obscurity.

Clarity is a good friend of Security, and IoT networks could use much of it.

      Summary: the role of the government

The space of IT security, for both corporate networks, home networks and
IoT, leaves much to wish for. The market is motivated by functional
features, with security taking the back seat. This is the case, to a large
extent, because security is evident neither in its existence nor in its
absence; a situation that is likely to prevail.

Moreover, product security suffers from significant information
asymmetry. The vendor knows much more about the security of its product than
the customer (even if such knowledge means knowing that he doesn't really
know, as is the case with many vendors). This asymmetry implies that
customers cannot properly factor security into their buying decisions,
diminishing the ability of the market to fuel improvements, as it does in
other areas.

Such conditions, like the related public safety conditions, call for
government intervention. In some cases this happens through regulation
(e.g., with car seat belts). In softer cases, where life and death do not
seem to be directly at stake, the government can still catalyze improvement
by using its buying power. In our case, the primary interest of the
government might be to protect itself, rather than the public, but the
outcome is the same. (It is reasonable to expect that some of the benefit of
that buying power, which the taxpayer enables, benefits back the taxpayer,
so all is well.)

Forcing software products to come with a *Bill of Materials* is just part of
the benefit of the Executive Order, but I argue that even this addition
alone, once imposed on many large vendors, can ignite a multi-phase process
of improvement:

 1. starting with one mandatory machine-readable SBOM document that has
    to be kept up to date,
 2. leading to machine-generated machine-readable documents, which are
    easier for the vendor to produce and refresh,
 3. to standards-based true machine-readable documents that can be used
    by security gear, both for SBOM and for other areas where positive
    attestation by the vendor can help reduce the use of heuristics in
    security monitoring,
 4. to an overall higher security posture by improving the accuracy and
    benefit of security monitoring and enforcement tools; accuracy that
    will also favor vendors.

We do not need an Executive Order for this, but we do need an Executive
Order to build the critical mass of demand for machine-readable security
documentation that will ignite this entire process.

Whatever the overall aspiration of the government is — I believe that it
will get more than it bargained for.

/This essay has also been published at: https://www.hbarel.com/

------------------------------

Date: May 29, 2021 14:31:25 JST
From: Dewayne Hendricks <dewayne@warpspeed.com>
Subject: CDC loosened mask guidance to encourage vaccination --
  it failed spectacularly (Beth Mole, Ars Technica)

FDA approval and paid time off would make people more likely to get a shot, poll finds.
By Beth Mole
May 28 2021
<https://arstechnica.com/science/2021/05/cdc-loosened-mask-guidance-to-encourage-vaccination-it-failed-spectacularly/>

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention stunned health officials and
experts on May 13 with the abrupt announcement that people fully vaccinated
against COVID-19 could forgo masking in most settings -- indoor, outdoor,
uncrowded, and crowded alike. The guidance was a stark reversal from the
health agency's previous stance, issued just two weeks earlier, that still
recommended vaccinated people wear masks among crowds and in many indoor,
uncrowded settings.

The CDC said at the time that it was merely following the science for
masking. The agency and its director, Rochelle Walensky, highlighted fresh,
real-world studies demonstrating COVID-19 vaccines' high efficacy and
ability to lower transmission risks. But the update was also part of an
overt effort to encourage vaccination among the vaccine hesitant by
emphasizing the perks of being vaccinated -- like not needing to wear masks
anymore and reclaiming other bits of normal life.

That messaging shift came as states across the country started to see their
pace of vaccination slow despite a glut of vaccine doses. Numerous polls
have indicated that most of the people eager to get vaccinated already
have. Now, with just 62 percent of the US adult population vaccinated, much
of the remaining unvaccinated portion is either hesitant or resistant to
being vaccinated. It's that group of people the CDC was trying to reach with
the new mask guidance.

``The science is also very clear about unvaccinated people,'' Walensky said
during the May 13 press briefing, in which she announced the mask guidance
update. ``[Unvaccinated people] remain at risk of mild or severe illness, of
death, or spreading the disease to others. You should still mask, and you
should get vaccinated right away.  Your health and how soon you return to
normal life before the pandemic are in your very capable hands.''

Mask blunder

The mask update immediately generated confusion and controversy given the
reversal and its abruptness. And according to fresh polling data, the
guidance failed spectacularly at convincing unvaccinated people to get
vaccinated.

In new results from the Kaiser Family Foundation's ongoing COVID-19 vaccine
monitoring poll, 85 percent of unvaccinated people said the CDC's loosened
mask guidance for fully vaccinated people made *no difference* to their
vaccination plans. Only 10 percent said the change made them *more likely*
to get vaccinated and a final 4 percent or so said the change made them
*less likely* to get a shot.  It gets worse. The poll broke unvaccinated
people into three groups: people who said they would &*definitely not* get
vaccinated, people who would get vaccinated *only if required*, or people
who would *wait and see*.  Those most resistant to getting vaccinated were
the least likely to be swayed by the CDC's latest guidance. Among the
*definitely not* group, 98 percent said the change made no difference to
them and the remaining 2 percent said they were less likely to get vaccinated
-- zero percent said they were more likely to get a vaccine. For the *only
if required* group, 89 percent said the CDC change made no difference.

Overall in the poll -- which collects data on a nationally representative
sampling of adults -- 62 percent said they had already gotten their vaccine
(which tracks with CDC vaccination data), 12 percent said they would wait
and see about vaccination, 7 percent said they would only get vaccinated if
they were required, and 13 percent said they would *definitely not* get
vaccinated. That *definitely not* portion has largely remained the same
throughout the polling, which stretches back to December.

While the CDC's loosened masking guidance was clearly not persuasive to the
unvaccinated, the poll explored other tactics that could boost
vaccination. The two ideas that seemed to have the most sway were: 1) if the
Food and Drug Administration grants a vaccine full approval, rather than the
current Emergency Use Authorizations (EUA); and 2) if employers provided
paid time off to get vaccinated and recover from any side effects, like
feeling under the weather the day after a dose.

FDA approval and PTO

A total of 32 percent of unvaccinated people said a full FDA approval (a
Biologics License Application [BLA] approval) would make them more likely to
get a COVID-19 vaccine. Currently, all three vaccines available in the US
have been granted an EUA. The FDA grants EUAs only during public health
emergencies, like the COVID-19 pandemic, through a process that is
fast-tracked compared with a full BLA approval.

Importantly, both tracks require efficacy and safety data from massive Phase
III clinical trials. The main difference between an EUA and full approval is
the amount of time that people in the clinical trials are followed after
full vaccination. Typically, the FDA likes to have at least six months of
follow-up data from a vaccine trail. This allows the trial runners and the
FDA to look at how well vaccine protection holds up over that time and if
any rare side effects crop up. For an EUA, the follow-up period may only be
around two months.

However, the difference is largely moot at this point. With nearly 167
million people in the US alone already given at least one shot, regulators
have a wealth of post-market safety data. Also, Pfizer and BioNTech
announced in April that they had six-months of trial follow-up data that
confirmed the vaccine's high efficacy and found no safety concerns. Earlier
this month, Pfizer and BioNTech, as well as Moderna, announced that they
havestarted a rolling data-submission process for a BLA.  [...]

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 14:59:53 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Deter prying eyes by locking your own letters (Atlas Obscura)

A how-to for those who want to use folds, tucks, slits, and more to turn
letters into little works of art.

https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/letterlocking-how-to

DIY encryption.

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 10:55:10 +0200
From: Marco <listaddr@gmail.com>
Subject: Facebook systematically censoring "vaccine concerns",
  regardless of truthfulness (Project Veritas)

This is not "fighting fake news", this is pure censorship.

https://www.projectveritas.com/news/breaking-facebook-whistleblowers-expose-leaked-internal-docs-detailing-new/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 15:06:50 -0400
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Facebook suspends Trump for 2 years in response to Oversight Board
  ruling (WashPost)

The change is part of a series of responses to the Facebook Oversight
Board's ruling on former President Trump.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2021/06/03/trump-facebook-oversight-board/

Risks? Facebook, Trump...

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 14:38:38 +0200
From: Marco <listaddr@gmail.com>
Subject: Google made it nearly impossible for users to keep their
  location private (Business Insider)

Google continued collecting location data even when users turned off various
location-sharing settings, made popular privacy settings harder to find, and
even pressured LG and other phone makers into hiding settings precisely
because users liked them, according to the documents.

https://www.businessinsider.com/unredacted-google-lawsuit-docs-detail-efforts-to-collect-user-location-2021-5

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 4 Jun 2021 13:28:53 -0600
From: "Cipher Editor" <cipher-editor@ieee-security.org>
Subject:  Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed
  Systems (Ross Anderson)

   [*Cipher* is at http://www.ieee-security.org/cipher.html
   It is published 6 times per year]

            Security Engineering: A Guide to Building
             Dependable Distributed Systems by Ross Anderson
  		    Book Review By Sven Dietrich
                             5/31/21

Wiley Publishing 2020, ISBN ISBN-13: ISBN: 978-1-119-64278-7 (Hardcover)
1232 pages, Third Edition

We live amid constant reminders in real life about what could have been done
better from a computer security perspective.  When something goes wrong, we
find it is a protocol that is exhibiting an exploitable vulnerability, or a
software repository that has been infiltrated with code containing a
vulnerability, or a critical infrastructure system held for ransom. One
wonders what design principles the system authors and builders had
considered to mitigate any compromises or to allow them to continue to
function in the presence of those compromises. How can we engineer those
solutions, how can we build better systems: more secure, more dependable?
One book attempts to provide this background.

At over 1200 pages, Ross Anderson's third edition of 'Security Engineering:
A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems' is a large update after
the first edition in 2001 and the second edition in 2008. This is a
comprehensive book on security engineering, providing anywhere from an
introduction to the various subfields of computer and network security to
considerations necessary to building secure and resilient real-world
systems, and all the way to identifying research problems that remain to be
addressed for the topics in each chapter.

The book is divided into three parts, with a total of 29 chapters, and
contains an extensive bibliography. The first part covers the basics, the
second part looks at applications of secure systems, and the third part
broadly discusses politics, management, and assurance. Each chapter covers
several themed subsections, followed by a chapter summary, a set of research
problems, and further reading. The chapters read well and flow easily within
themselves as well as from one chapter to the next. While it is a a
descriptive treatise, not a rigorous mathematical treatment of the various
subjects, nonetheless occasional mathematical formulas or charts will pop up
inline to illustrate the broad concepts brought forth and to whet the
reader's appetite to seek out the original research paper or other
references cited.

The first part spans 8 chapters that quickly set the stage for Ross
Anderson's approach to the subject matter: 'What is Security Engineering?',
'Who is the Opponent?', 'Psychology and Usability', 'Protocols',
'Cryptography', 'Access Control', 'Distributed Systems', and last but not
least 'Economics'. The reader learns about what it means to deal with
adversity in the 2020s, identifying the threat models, the pitfalls, and the
consequences of not getting security right. The big impact here is from the
author's contribution to the security field, the systems view, the
psychology and usability aspects, as well as the economics aspects, topics
for which the author has organized (or otherwise contributed to) workshops
and conferences.

The second part discusses real-world applications of secure systems,
covering many decades of security work, from the early days of 'Multilevel
Security' and 'Nuclear Command and Control', to 'Advanced Cryptographic
Engineering', 'Biometrics' and 'Tamper Resistance' as well as Digital Rights
Management in 'Copyright and DRM', to 'Network Attack and Defence',
'Phones', 'Locks and Alarms', just to mention some of the 16 chapters in
here. This part is wrapped up with thoughts on 'New Directions' in the
field, talking among others about the combination of Machine Learning,
Artificial Intelligence and Security and what it means for both attacker and
defender sides.

The third part covers politics, management, and assurance in four
chapters. Here the reader learns about 'Surveillance or Privacy', 'Secure
Systems Development', 'Assurance and Sustainability'.  Controversial topics
of surveillance versus privacy are brought up in the context of political
and technological settings that have affected Internet users for many years,
including wiretapping and censorship. Risk quantification and DevSecOps are
brought into the picture here as well. This part wraps up with 'Beyond
"Computer Says No"', reminding us what Ross Anderson has told us all along
in these chapters: think about the big picture, and how does it fit in?

This is a fantastic book for organizing one's thinking about security
engineering and design. The reader how all the facets fit together in the
real world through both scientific references and anecdotes from the last
few decades. The depth is provided, should the reader care to delve deeper,
through an absolutely impressive bibliography of close to 2100 entries. The
narrative is easy to follow throughout the book, whether the reader is
learning about DDoS attacks (always close to my heart), espionage (Snowden's
surveillance revelations, for example), security protocol failures,
financial transaction protocols, mobile phone security, electronic voting
security (very relevant in the last few years), security printing, covert
channels, DNS security, deception, or ransomware, among others.

The breadth of the topics covered provides a good perspective for
appreciating the impact that good (secure?) design can have on real-world
systems that surround us. That is even more so relevant now that the
Internet has invaded, uh, permeated our homes with Internet-of-Things
devices that make our lives more Internet-centric with all the advantages
and risks that come with it.

The accessible style of this book and, most importantly, the relevant
context of the discussed secure systems, make for one pleasurable
reading. While it could be considered a very comprehensive introduction to
the idea of security engineering, there are enough timely and
thought-provoking musings to keep more advanced readers interested in
seeking out the scientific articles providing the adequate depth, hindsight,
and foresight. This book is a must-have if security engineering is your
intended field or connected to your field.

Ross Anderson did a great job of producing the third edition of 'Security
Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems' in 2020, a
book intended to last for many years. He is a well-known expert in the
security field and this overarching treatise makes for one impressive (and
heavy!) book. The book is a welcome addition to my bookshelf, to be used as
a reference or even textbook in the years to come.

  Sven Dietrich reviews technology and security books for IEEE Cipher. He
  welcomes your thoughts at spock at ieee dot org.]

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2021 22:31:13 +0100
From: John Bechtel <john@bechtel.me.uk>
Subject: Re: Risks: Colonial Pipeline accused of negligence in proposed
  class action (Bloomberg Law, RISKS-32.69)

The idea that Colonial would shut the pipeline down if it can't
measure who is getting what product (as I understand the story) sounds very
much like the apocryphal story about telephone exchanges (Central Offices or
Switches to some) back in the day: What is the purpose of a telephone
exchange?  ``Why, to make telephone calls, of course!''
But that is not the answer. The true answer is: to generate billing records.
If the hard disk to which billing records are written is full, should the
exchange place calls?

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 03 Jun 2021 14:27:41 -0400
From: Sam Steingold <sds@gnu.org>
Subject: Re: Florida governor signs law to block *deplatforming* of
  Florida politicians (The Verge, RISKS-32.69)

I think [they] have reinvented Shadow banning.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_banning

I find it disappointing that such a terrifying risk to free discourse is
being advocated here.

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 09:43:09 +0100
From: "Patrick O'Beirne" <pob@sysmod.com>
Subject: Re: Irish Health Service hit by ransomware (BBC, RISKS-32.68)

Ongoing disruption and consequences, costs :
https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/hse-cyberattack-has-had-devastating-impact-cancer-services-director-says-1.4576211
"The search for handwritten or printed-out notes can exacerbate delays,
causing “a devastating impact on . . . the speed at which we can
assess patients”."

https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/cyberattack-hse-faces-final-bill-of-at-least-100m-1.4577076

" The cyberattack on IT systems in the health service will cost it at least
€100 million, according to chief executive Paul Reid. This is at
the lower end of estimates of the total cost, he indicated, and includes the
cost of restoring the network, upgrading systems to Microsoft 365 and the
disruption caused to patients."  (From Windows 7)

In other news, citizen contra-attackers:
https://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/members-of-public-send-messages-to-cyber-gang-that-attacked-hse-1.4575230
" An online message thread established by the cyber gang that attacked the
Health Service Executive has been accessed by a number of unknown people,
with gardaí trying to establish who they are and what their motivations
are. At least one person who accessed the thread sent sexually explicit and
racist comments to the attackers in recent days."

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 12:17:23 -0700
From: "Stephen E. Bacher" <sebmb1@verizon.net>
Subject: Re: Why GitHub Refuses to Provide Key Evidence to a Man on Death
  Row (Gizmodo)

Apart from the social media (Facebook/Twitter/etc.) ramifications, this
story evokes another risk: the risk of relying without question on "expert"
DNA analysis to prove innocence (or guilt).

Some time ago the public radio program "This American Life" featured an
in-depth story which delved anecdotally into the ins and outs of analyzing
DNA data; it raised some skepticism, at least in my mind, about the accuracy
and reliability of the resulting evidence presented in courtrooms.

This is , to be sure, a journalistic issue at least as much as a legal one.

------------------------------

Date: Wed,  2 Jun 2021 16:55:23 -0400 (EDT)
From: Eli the Bearded <*@eli.users.panix.com>
Subject: Re: NoScript is immoral? (Re: Ward, RISKS-32.69)

The Twitter account Sh_t User Story (name censored for profanity filters)
has a wealth of examples of bad technology design many of which would be at
home with RISKS. All are presented in the "User Story" format. One relevant
to this post:

    As a...
        web user
    I want to...
        whitelist news websites from my ad-blocker plugin
    so that...
        I can take a long break between the first two paragraphs of
        the article, and then be served with a paywall

Link ROT-13rd, again for profanity filters:

uggcf://gjvggre.pbz/FuvgHfreFgbel/fgnghf/1352299991969243138

There are real risk lurking in all of this. Some of them:

  1. People who can pay for news get it, but propaganda remains free.

  2. Ads have become the normalized way of making micropayments on the web,
     but ads frequently include enough unpleasantness that people take a lot
     of steps to avoid them (NoScript and ad blockers).

    a. There's no real middle between ad based micropayments and long term
       subscriptions.

    b. There's not always an easy way to find comparable news stories on a
       site one already subscribes to. This is particularly true for stories
       passed as URL without further details.

  3. Search engine discoverability is critical for many sites, and search
     engines don't typically run javascript, so JS disabled access often has
     to work.

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2021 23:43:53 +0200
From: kaufmann@winning.com
Subject: Re: NoScript is immoral? (RISKs 32.69) notsp

In RISKs 32.69, Martin Ward writes:

>Is it really morally wrong to choose *not* to execute by default every piece
>of code that is handed to you by any web site that you decide to visit?

Of course not. The way I look at is, it's my computer and my Internet
connection, both paid for with my dollars. I have every right to exercise
full control over what bits are downloaded with that connection and what
happens to them after they arrive on my computer. To argue otherwise is
to suggest that it's also morally wrong to leave the room during the
commercial breaks in television programs. If there are copyright or other
considerations the publisher wishes enforce, then they should be at
least nominally negotiated before the content is made available (perhaps
even if it's only a "click here to accept our terms" button). I guess
we're all still waiting for a viable micropayments system.

------------------------------

Date: 30 May 2021 23:17:05 -0400
From: "John Levine" <johnl@iecc.com>
Subject: Re: NoScript is immoral? (Re: Ward, RISKS-32.69)

I wouldn't say it's morally wrong, but as I may have said a few times
before, reporters need to eat, so you're definitely a freeloader.

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 07:38:51 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Security of the IMPs (Cosell, RISKS-32.69)

In an episode of the "The Americans" about deep cover Soviet spies, an
ARPAnet IMP makes a brief appearance, as well as a PDP-10 they call "The
Beast".

Here is a still clip from the episode showing the front panel of the IMP.

  Don Hopkins, Arpanet Bullshit, 21 Oct 2015
  From The Americans, Season 2 Episode 7: Arpanet.
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hVth6T3gMa0

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 31 May 2021 12:58:55 +0200
From: Toebs Douglass <risks@winterflaw.net>
Subject: Re: Truth, Lies, and Automation (RISKS-32.69)

> Among other achievements, it has drafted an op-ed that was commissioned by
> The Guardian,

So, what happened here is that eight different opt-eds were produced by
GPT-3; they were all kept short, and this was deliberate, because one of the
fundamental and unsolved issues with artificial text generation is its
inability to make sense over longer bodies of text; any given sentence is
fine, a couple of sentences usually fine, something longer is problematic -
and always will be, I suspect, because you'd need such a vast amount of
content, to be able to develop a neural net which has seen enough material
on enough subjects to be able to fake it for extended bodies of text, that
it is impossible - that much content doesn't actually exist.  It's a sort of
n^n problem.  You end up needing an *awful* lot more data and computational
power just to move ahead a tiny bit.

Of these eight documents, the editors at the Guardian then edited them all,
as they saw fit, to produce the single document which was published.

I may be wrong, but I suspect they took the most sane paragraphs from the
eight attempts, fixed them up, and re-ordered them to make sense.

If you're thinking this whole piece is the *direct* product of a text
generator, it really isn't, and the areas where humans helped are exactly
the areas where the method used is fundamentally and inherently weak.

> written news stories that a majority of readers thought were written by
> humans,

This claim is backed up by a link to an arxiv white paper.

In the white paper, various AI models (of increasing size, culminating in
GPT-3) were given an original 200 or so word news piece written by a human
and asked to generate text based on this primer.  The generated text was
presented to the humans, who had to decide if it was human or AI written.

I may well just not be seeing it, but all I can see is the claim that as the
size of the model increases, the time taken to decide increases, and the
success rate drops.  No actual numbers appear to be given.

As before, short text is being used because of the fundamental and inherent
difficulty in producing longer texts.

> and devised new Internet memes.

  This claim is backed up by a link to a tweet.  The tweet appears to show
in a video of sequential still images a series of short, one or two word
phases, submitted to GPT-3 by some guy, and its response.  The only other
information about what was done is that "explaining the meme in the priming
improves the consistency/quality".  Presumably also these represent the best
results found, as selected by a human.

> In light of this breakthrough, we consider a simple but important question:
> can automation generate content for disinformation campaigns?

Examining the claims made so far, there has been no breakthrough.

I've not read the document published by the Center for Security and Emerging
Technology.  It may be it is a well-balanced, rational and reasonable
document.  However, this one paragraph, being more closely examined, appears
to be sensationalism; the claims made are misleading, and seem far in excess
of the basis upon which they are made.

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2020 11:11:11 -0800
From: RISKS-request@csl.sri.com
Subject: Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

 The ACM RISKS Forum is a MODERATED digest.  Its Usenet manifestation is
 comp.risks, the feed for which is donated by panix.com as of June 2011.
=> SUBSCRIPTIONS: The mailman Web interface can be used directly to
 subscribe and unsubscribe:
   http://mls.csl.sri.com/mailman/listinfo/risks

=> SUBMISSIONS: to risks@CSL.sri.com with meaningful SUBJECT: line that
   includes the string `notsp'.  Otherwise your message may not be read.
 *** This attention-string has never changed, but might if spammers use it.
=> SPAM challenge-responses will not be honored.  Instead, use an alternative
 address from which you never send mail where the address becomes public!
=> The complete INFO file (submissions, default disclaimers, archive sites,
 copyright policy, etc.) is online.
   <http://www.CSL.sri.com/risksinfo.html>
 *** Contributors are assumed to have read the full info file for guidelines!

=> OFFICIAL ARCHIVES:  http://www.risks.org takes you to Lindsay Marshall's
    searchable html archive at newcastle:
  http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/VL.IS --> VoLume, ISsue.
  Also, ftp://ftp.sri.com/risks for the current volume/previous directories
     or ftp://ftp.sri.com/VL/risks-VL.IS for previous VoLume
  If none of those work for you, the most recent issue is always at
     http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt, and index at /risks-32.00
  ALTERNATIVE ARCHIVES: http://seclists.org/risks/ (only since mid-2001)
 *** NOTE: If a cited URL fails, we do not try to update them.  Try
  browsing on the keywords in the subject line or cited article leads.
  Apologies for what Office365 and SafeLinks may have done to URLs.
==> Special Offer to Join ACM for readers of the ACM RISKS Forum:
    <http://www.acm.org/joinacm1>

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 32.70
************************
