Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
precedence: bulk
Subject: Risks Digest 32.54

RISKS-LIST: Risks-Forum Digest  Saturday 13 March 2021  Volume 32 : Issue 54

ACM FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS (comp.risks)
Peter G. Neumann, founder and still moderator

***** See last item for further information, disclaimers, caveats, etc. *****
This issue is archived at <http://www.risks.org> as
  <http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/32.54>
The current issue can also be found at
  <http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt>

  Contents:
Faulty Software Snarls Sign-Ups for Vaccinations (Kellen Browning)
Security startup Verkada hack exposes 150,000 security cameras in Tesla
  factories, jails, hospitals, hospitals, etc. (Bloomberg)
Kia Recalls 380,000 Vehicles Over Fire Risk (NYIimes)
Coors long outage due to ransomware (ZDNet via Tom Van Vleck)
CRA to lock over 800,000 taxpayers out of online accounts tomorrow (CBC)
Linus Torvalds fixes 'double ungood' Linux kernel bug (ZDNet)
The Accellion breach keeps getting worse and more expensive (WiReD)
T-Mobile to Step Up Ad Targeting of Cellphone Customers (WSJ)
Experts brace for wave of hacks tied to Microsoft email vulnerabilities
  (Trust.org)
Microsoft took nearly two months to issue a patch after hearing of Exchange
  Server's flaws, even as a mass-hack unfolded; some of the flaws were 10+
  years old (Krebs on Security)
Man Sues Hertz Over Lost Receipt That Was His Murder Alibi (NYTimes)
Four new hacking groups have joined an ongoing offensive against Microsoft's
  email servers (Technology Review)
Study of auto recalls shows carmakers delay announcements until they 'hide
  in the herd' (Techxplore)
How to poison the data that Big Tech uses to surveil you (Technology Review)
Pandemic Forces FDA to Sharply Curtail Drug Company Inspections (NYTimes)
Russian Disinformation Campaign Aims to Undermine Confidence in Pfizer,
  Other Covid-19 Vaccines, U.S. Officials Say (WSJ)
Some turned away from Danvers mass vaccination site because of glitch
  (The Boston Globe)
Introducing Deep Nostalgia: Animate the Faces in Your Family Photos
  (MyHeritage)
Re: Software Bug Keeping Hundreds Of Inmates In Arizona Prisons Beyond
  Release Dates (Amos Shapir)
Re: Israel adopts law allowing names of unvaccinated to be shared
  (Amos Shapir)
Re: Computers get Sundays off? (Amos Shapir)
Re: His Lights Stayed on During Texas's Storm. Now He Owes $16,752
  (Amos Shapir)
Re: Vintage technology: 'It sounds so much cleaner' (David Damerell,
  Martin Ward, A Micael W Bacon)
Re: Incorrect train simulator a factor in train crash (Clive Page)
Re: Spy agencies have big hopes for AI (Henry Baker)
Re: Farms are going to need different kinds of robots (Martyn Thomas,
  Henry Baker, Richard Stein)
Re: Google will remove *facts* if they think they're harmful (Henry Baker)
Re: Too much choice is hurting America (henry Baker, Richard Stein)
Re: Boeing 777 PW4000 engine problems (Peter Bernard Ladkin)
Allan McDonald Dies at 83; Tried to Stop the Challenger Launch (NYTimes)
Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 10:21:54 PST
From: Peter Neumann <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: Faulty Software Snarls Sign-Ups for Vaccinations (Kellen Browning)

The New York Times, 13 Mar 2021

  Large software systems have often been problematic for companies and
  governments.  HealthCare.gov ... crashed early on.  ...  Virginia's VAMS
  system was too confusing for older adults.  ... PrepMod had problems
  too. ...  Many state officials have switched software providers, only to
  see little or no improvements.  In California, tech mishaps have allowed
  ineligible people to snatch up appointments.  Massachusetts ... crashing
  websites.  Some North Carolina residents are eschewing online sign-ups
  entirely, instead engaging in a vaccine free-for-all.

  ``You're basically building and testing data systems on the fly as
  millions of people are trying to find vaccines.'' [Claire Hannan,
  executive director of the Association of Immunization Managers]

Everyone else mentioned in this roughly half-page article gets dinged for
one problem or another, including Microsoft, Deloitte, Salesforce, MyTurn
(which offered more appointments than available vaccines), and more.
Perhaps the past 12 months could have been used to anticipate some of these
problems, but then that is only 20-20 hindsight.  [PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2021 15:33:15 -0800
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: Security startup Verkada hack exposes 150,000 security cameras in
  Tesla factories, jails, hospitals, etc. (Bloomberg)

  Verkada, a Silicon Valley security startup that provides cloud-based
  security camera services, has suffered a major security breach.  Hackers
  gained access to over 150,000 of the company's cameras, including cameras
  in Tesla factories and warehouses, Cloudflare offices, Equinox gyms,
  hospitals, jails, schools, police stations, and Verkada's own offices,
  Bloomberg reports.

https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-03-09/hackers-expose-tesla-jails-in-breach-of-150-000-security-cams
https://www.theverge.com/2021/3/9/22322122/verkada-hack-150000-security-cameras-tesla-factory-cloudflare-jails-hospitals

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2021 18:34:05 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Kia Recalls 380,000 Vehicles Over Fire Risk (NYIimes)

A concern over fire risk for nearly 380,000 Kia Sportage and Cadenza
vehicles is underscored by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration.

On its website, Kia describes the Sportage, which has a starting price
around $24,000, as having a 'coupe-like profile and athletic stance'.  The
Cadenza, a full-size sedan, is 'a step toward luxury', Kia says on its site,
with a starting cost of around $38,000.

Affected car owners can bring their vehicles to a Kia dealer to have the
problem fixed, federal officials said. In affected Sportage vehicles,
dealers can replace certain fuses in the electrical junction box, and update
the hydraulic electronic control unit software, the agency said.  In
affected Cadenza vehicles, it said, a new fuse kit containing a 25A fuse can
be installed, replacing a kit containing a 40A fuse.

In addition to seeing warning lights, drivers of affected vehicles may
detect a 'burning/melting odor' or see 'smoke from engine compartment' the
agency said in a safety recall report.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/09/business/kia-recall-sportage-cadenza.html

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 17:23:40 -0800
From: Tom Van Vleck <thvv@multicians.org>
Subject: Coors long outage due to ransomware

https://www.zdnet.com/article/molson-coors-discloses-cyberattack-disrupting-its-brewery-operations/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 16:18:17 -0700
From: "Matthew Kruk" <mkrukg@gmail.com>
Subject: CRA to lock over 800,000 taxpayers out of online accounts tomorrow

The Canada Revenue Agency says it will lock more than 800,000 taxpayers out
of its online platform tomorrow after an investigation revealed that some
usernames and passwords may have been obtained by "unauthorized third
parties."

The agency said the move is a precautionary cybersecurity measure and is
being taken after a similar action in February, when over 100,000 accounts
accounts were locked.

"Like the accounts that were locked in February, these user IDs and
passwords were not compromised as a result of a breach of CRA's online
systems. Rather, they may have been obtained by unauthorized third parties
and through a variety of means by sources external to the CRA," said CRA in
a news release.

https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/cra-accounts-locked-1.5947714

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 14:41:25 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Linus Torvalds fixes 'double ungood' Linux kernel bug (ZDNet)

Well, that was embarrassing. Linus Torvalds' first release candidate for the
Linux kernel 5.12 included a show-stopping bug. After shutting down that
release, Torvalds has launched a new version of 5.12, which doesn't include
the mistake.

https://www.zdnet.com/article/linus-torvalds-fixes-double-ungood-linux-kernel-bug/

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2021 18:32:01 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: The Accellion breach keeps getting worse and more expensive (WiReD)

What started as a few vulnerabilities in firewall equipment has snowballed
into a global extortion spree.

https://www.wired.com/story/accellion-breach-victims-extortion/

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2021 16:02:56 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: T-Mobile to Step Up Ad Targeting of Cellphone Customers (WSJ)

Wireless carrier tells subscribers it could share their masked browsing, app
data and online activity with advertisers unless they opt out

A T-Mobile spokeswoman said the changes give subscribers advertising that
aligns with their interests.  ``We've heard many say they prefer more
relevant ads so we're defaulting to this setting,''

https://www.wsj.com/articles/t-mobile-to-step-up-ad-targeting-of-cellphone-customers-11615285803

How thoughtful, allowing opting out. I wonder how many clicks are required.

  [Also noted by Monty Solomon.  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2021 14:20:10 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Experts brace for wave of hacks tied to Microsoft email
  vulnerabilities (Trust.org)

The White House and cybersecurity experts are bracing for a wave of
intrusions tied to the Microsoft software vulnerabilities exposed this week,
with some warning that other hackers may already have found the flaws used
by alleged Chinese spies to penetrate networks across the Internet.

On Friday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki warned that the
vulnerabilities found in Microsoft Corp's widely used Exchange servers were
"significant," and "could have far-reaching impacts."

"We're concerned that there are a large number of victims," Psaki said.

The China-linked hacking activity appears to have been discovered in
January. Wielding tools that exploited four previously unknown
vulnerabilities, a group that Microsoft dubs "Hafnium" broke in to email
servers, remotely and silently siphoning information from users' inboxes
without having to send a single malicious email or rogue attachment.

Sean Koessel, of Virginia-based cybersecurity firm Volexity, said his firm
has caught the hackers using the technique to steal emails from three
different U.S. think tanks, which he declined to identify. But while that
was consistent with classic digital spy work - it seemed restrained and
deliberate - a sudden and dramatic upswing in activity during the final two
days of February led him to conclude that other hackers have piled in behind
them.  [...]
https://news.trust.org/item/20210305212636-z0z65

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 10:30:04 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Microsoft took nearly two months to issue a patch after hearing of
  Exchange Server's flaws, even as a mass-hack unfolded; some of the flaws
  were 10+ years old (Krebs on Security)

*A Basic Timeline of the Exchange Mass-Hack*

Sometimes when a complex story takes us by surprise or knocks us back on our
heels, it pays to revisit the events in a somewhat linear fashion.  Here's a
brief timeline of what we know leading up to last week's mass-hack, when
hundreds of thousands of *Microsoft Exchange Server* systems got compromised
and seeded with a powerful backdoor Trojan horse program
<https://krebsonsecurity.com/2021/03/at-least-30000-u-s-organizations-newly-hacked-via-holes-in-microsofts-email-software/>
.
*When did Microsoft find out about attacks on previously unknown
vulnerabilities in Exchange?*.  [...]
https://krebsonsecurity.com/2021/03/a-basic-timeline-of-the-exchange-mass-hack/

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 11 Mar 2021 21:45:39 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Man Sues Hertz Over Lost Receipt That Was His Murder Alibi
  (NYTimes)

He spent four years imprisoned on a murder conviction before the car rental
company finally located a receipt showing he was nowhere near the scene of
the 2011 killing in Michigan.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/11/us/herbert-alford-hertz-lawsuit-receipt.html

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2021 14:28:13 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Four new hacking groups have joined an ongoing offensive against
  Microsoft's email servers (Technology Review)

*Chinese hackers targeting Microsoft Exchange servers were joined by a
feeding frenzy of other adversaries this week.*

A Chinese government-linked hacking campaign revealed by Microsoft this week
has ramped up rapidly. At least four other distinct hacking groups are now
attacking critical flaws in Microsoft's email software in a cyber-campaign
the US government describes as ``widespread domestic and international
exploitation'' with the potential to impact hundreds of thousands of victims
worldwide.

Beginning in January 2021, Chinese hackers known as Hafnium began exploiting
vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange servers. But since the company
publicly revealed the campaign on Tuesday, four more groups have joined in
and the original Chinese hackers have dropped the pretense of stealth and
increased the number of attacks they're carrying out. The growing list of
victims includes tens of thousands of US businesses and government offices
targeted by the new groups.

``There are at least five different clusters of activity that appear to be
exploiting the vulnerabilities,'' says Katie Nickels, who leads an
intelligence team at the cybersecurity firm Red Canary that is
investigating the hacks. When tracking cyberthreats, intelligence analysts
group clusters of hacking activity by the specific techniques, tactics,
procedures, machines, people, and other characteristics they observe. It's
a way to track the hacking threats they face.

Hafnium is a sophisticated Chinese hacking group that has long run
cyber-espionage campaigns against the United States, according to Microsoft.
They are an apex predator -- exactly the sort that is always followed
closely by opportunistic and smart scavengers.

Activity quickly kicked into higher gear once Microsoft made their
 announcement on Tuesday. But exactly who these hacking groups are, what
they want, and how they're accessing these servers remain unclear. It's
possible that the original Hafnium group sold or shared their exploit code
or that other hackers reverse engineered the exploits based on the fixes
that Microsoft released, Nickels explains.  [...]
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/06/1020442/four-new-hacking-groups-microsoft-email-servers/

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2021 14:22:03 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Study of auto recalls shows carmakers delay announcements until
  they 'hide in the herd' (Techxplore)

Automotive recalls are occurring at record levels, but seem to be announced
after inexplicable delays. A research study of 48 years of auto recalls
announced in the United States finds carmakers frequently wait to make their
announcements until after a competitor issues a recall -- even if it is
unrelated to similar defects.

This suggests that recall announcements may not be triggered solely by
individual firms' product quality defect
<https://techxplore.com/tags/defect/> awareness or concern for the public
interest, but may also be influenced by competitor recalls, a phenomenon
that no prior research had investigated.

Researchers analyzed 3,117 auto recalls over a 48-year period -- from 1966
to 2013 -- using a model to investigate recall clustering and categorized
recalls as leading or following within a cluster. They found that 73 percent
of recalls occurred in clusters that lasted 34 days and had 7.6 following
recalls on average.

On average, a cluster formed after a 16-day gap in which no recalls were
announced. They found 266 such clusters over the period studied.

"The implication is that auto firms are either consciously or unconsciously
delaying recall announcements until they are able to hide in the herd,"
said George Ball, assistant professor of operations and decision
technologies and Weimer Faculty Fellow at the Indiana University Kelley
School of Business. "By doing this, they experience a significantly reduced
stock penalty from their recall."

Ball is co-author of the study, "Hiding in the Herd: The Product Recall
Clustering Phenomenon," recently published online in *Manufacturing and
Service Operations Management*, along with faculty at the University of
Illinois, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Minnesota and
Michigan State University.  [...]
https://techxplore.com/news/2021-02-auto-recalls-carmakers-herd.html

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 7 Mar 2021 14:30:25 -1000
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: How to poison the data that Big Tech uses to surveil you

*Algorithms are meaningless without good data. The public can exploit that
to demand change.*

Every day, your life leaves a trail of digital breadcrumbs that tech giants
use to track you. You send an email, order some food, stream a show. They
get back valuable packets of data to build up their understanding of your
preferences. That data is fed into machine-learning algorithms to target you
with ads and recommendations. Google cashes your data in for over $120
billion a year of ad revenue.

Increasingly, we can no longer opt out of this arrangement. In 2019 Kashmir
Hill, then a reporter for Gizmodo, famously tried to cut five major tech
giants out of her life.
<https://gizmodo.com/i-cut-the-big-five-tech-giants-from-my-life-it-was-hel-1831304194>
She spent six weeks being miserable, struggling to perform basic digital
functions. The tech giants, meanwhile, didn't even feel an itch.

Now researchers at Northwestern University are suggesting new ways to
redress this power imbalance by treating our *collective* data as a
bargaining chip. Tech giants may have fancy algorithms at their disposal,
but they are meaningless without enough of the right data to train on.

In a new paper <https://arxiv.org/pdf/2012.09995.pdf> being presented at the
Association for Computing Machinery's Fairness, Accountability, and
Transparency conference <https://2021.facctconference.org/> next week,
researchers including PhD students Nicholas Vincent and Hanlin Li propose
three ways the public can exploit this to their advantage:
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/05/1020376/resist-big-tech-surveillance-data/

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 10:42:52 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Pandemic Forces FDA to Sharply Curtail Drug Company Inspections
  (NYTimes)

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/09/health/covid-fda-drug-inspections.html

"The steep decline in oversight has stalled a number of new drug
applications. The agency says it is trying to protect its employees but
critics say inspectors should be considered essential workers and do their
jobs."

To prove manufacturing fitness, rigorous inspection -- trust but verify --
is essential. This implies skilled and independent boots, and keen eyes, to
confidently assess and approve acceptance. A pandemic environment, and
certain federal industry initiatives (e.g. delegation of self-certification
to industry), are known to weaken compliance vigilance.

With fake video and image manipulation techniques widely available, virtual
inspections are a dubious substitute.

Adjusting an FDA inspector's employment classification to "essential worker"
elevates their health and safety exposure risks during the pandemic. Where's
the incentive to motivate their conscientious engagement?

RISKS-31.62 from 11MAR2020 notes suspensions of foreign manufacturer
inspections (http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/31/62#subj12.1).

The FDA inspector corps FTE, per regulatory jurisdiction for 2008-2019 were
acquired via FOIA request are shown in CSV format below. I'll need to submit
another FOIA request to acquire inspector FTE for fiscal year 2020.

ORA Investigative FTE by Center (Domestic/Foreign and Import Operations)
From Work Plan YEAR,CBER Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research,CDER
(Center for Drug Evaluation and Research),CDRH (Center for Devices and
Radiological Health),CFSAN (Center for Food Safety and Applied
Nutrition),CTP (Center for Tobacco Products),CVM (Center for Veterinary
Medicine)

2008,110.1,259.3,204.9,591.8,,85.2
2009,115.1,248.8,214.4,642.8,,91.3 2010,121.0,252.1,231.4,681.9,,89.8
2011,131.0,293.1,243.5,842.1,,91.4 2012,131.1,292.2,243.4,842.6,13.2,91.6
2013,140.1,333.6,246.5,903.9,13.2,105.1
2014,140.0,343.9,247.9,902.0,8.5,105.1
2015,127.5,367.2,270.7,911.2,7.8,106.2
2016,142.9,365.4,253.2,925.9,6.5,106.2
2017,143.2,354.9,253.8,963.0,6.5,106.3
2018,137.0,353.8,245.1,916.1,10.0,99.4
2019,122.6,323.6,219.6,875.9,11.6,98.9

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2021 09:38:24 +0900
From: Dave Farber <farber@gmail.com>
Subject: Russian Disinformation Campaign Aims to Undermine Confidence in
  Pfizer, Other Covid-19 Vaccines, U.S. Officials Say (WSJ)

https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-disinformation-campaign-aims-to-undermine-confidence-in-pfizer-other-covid-19-vaccines-u-s-officials-say-11615129200

Russia Fights Skepticism of Its Covid-19 Vaccine With Global Campaign
7 Mar 2021

To counter skepticism over its Covid-19 vaccine, Russia has built a big
public-relations effort at home and abroad. WSJ's Georgi Kantchev
explains why the success of Sputnik V is so important for the
Kremlin. Photo: Juan Mabromata/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images

WASHINGTON -- Russian intelligence agencies have mounted a campaign to
undermine confidence in Pfizer Inc.'s and other Western vaccines, using
online publications that in recent months have questioned the vaccines'
development and safety, U.S. officials said.

An official with the State Department's Global Engagement Center, which
monitors foreign disinformation efforts, identified four publications that
he said have served as fronts for Russian intelligence.

The websites played up the vaccines' risk of side effects, questioned
their efficacy, and said the U.S. had rushed the Pfizer vaccine through the
approval process, among other false or misleading claims.

Though the outlets' readership is small, U.S. officials say they inject
false narratives that can be amplified by other Russian and international
media.

``We can say these outlets are directly linked to Russian intelligence
services,'' the Global Engagement Center official said of the sites behind
the disinformation campaign. ``They're all foreign-owned, based outside of
the United States. They vary a lot in their reach, their tone, their
audience, but they're all part of the Russian propaganda and disinformation
ecosystem.''

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 10:17:08 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Some turned away from Danvers mass vaccination site because of
  glitch (The Boston Globe)

https://www.boston.com/news/coronavirus/2021/03/07/danvers-mass-vaccination-site-turned-away

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2021 20:27:20 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Introducing Deep Nostalgia: Animate the Faces in Your Family Photos
  (MyHeritage)

Do you sometimes wonder how your ancestors moved, smiled and looked in real
life? You can now see your ancestors from generations past like never
before!

We're happy to introduce Deep Nostalgia, a groundbreaking new photo feature
on MyHeritage that allows you to animate the faces of your loved ones in
still photos. This new addition to our suite of photo tools produces a
realistic depiction of how a person from an old photo could have moved and
looked if they were captured on video.

https://blog.myheritage.com/2021/02/new-animate-the-faces-in-your-family-photos/

I can't decide what the risk might be but it seems a bit creepy.

New version of uncanny valley?

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 10:06:31 +0200
From: Amos Shapir <amos083@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Software Bug Keeping Hundreds Of Inmates In Arizona Prisons
  Beyond Release Dates (RISKS-32.52)

I assume it didn't occur to anyone at the Arizona Department of Corrections
to employ a human being to check who is eligible for an early release; if
the computer can't do it, it's much simpler to just ignore it and keep them
in prison...

I wonder if these inmates can sue for false imprisonment?

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 10:45:04 +0200
From: Amos Shapir <amos083@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Israel adopts law allowing names of unvaccinated to be shared
  (RISKS-32.52)

Such a law became necessary because the implementation of the "Green Tag"
handed to vaccinated and recuperating people, is so lame.

The "Green Tag" is supposed to distinguish who can participate in public
gatherings like concert halls and stadiums, and be presented as proof of
eligibility at the entrance of such venues.

It can be acquired from a site of the Ministry of Health, a week after
receiving the 2nd shot, in either of two forms: One is a PDF file,
containing just an ID (not even a name) and expiration date, along with a
big QR square which contains all necessary info (unlike previous versions,
it seems to be digitally signed).  It can be printed, or kept on the owner's
phone.  This assumes that whoever this tag is presented to, has the capacity
to scan and decipher the code -- which may be true for airports, but not for
other venues.

The other (recommended) form, is a phone app which connects to a MOH site
and displays information about the current status of COVID19 infection in
the area, and when supplied with an ID, checks for Green Tag eligibility.
If the answer is positive, it displays only a GIF image of green people
walking -- and nothing else.

Bouncers at the gates are supposed to let through only those who can present
the GIF.  Unvaccinated people do not need to hire a hacker to create a copy,
the MOH had already done this for you:
https://govextra.gov.il/media/32575/green-label-he.mp4

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 11:07:09 +0200
From: Amos Shapir <amos083@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Computers get Sundays off? (RISKS-32.52)

Back in the Good Old Days, you could deposit a check at any branch of your
bank; they'd send it to they payer's bank, who'd send it on their internal
mail system to his branch, where they'd look up the balance and debit the
amount, and then transfer it to your bank, who would credit your account.
The process could take up to 5 business days -- not including weekends, of
course.

Nowadays, you can deposit checks directly from your phone, anywhere, any
time.  It takes only a few seconds -- and then you still have to wait for up
to 5 business days, until the check is "cleared".

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 8 Mar 2021 11:23:25 +0200
From: Amos Shapir <amos083@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: His Lights Stayed on During Texas's Storm. Now He Owes $16,752
  (RISKS-32.52)

The risk here is applying the Capitalist algorithm, which may be adequate
for businesses, to individual consumers, where it is not.  It may well be
that Mr. Willoughby had saved over the years on his bill much more than
these $16,752, but the trouble is, he doesn't have them available
immediately for paying this bill.

Businesses borrow money regularly in the course of their normal operations;
they know who could lend to them, and have all the procedures in place to do
it whenever they need to.  Individual consumers usually do not, which means
that even if they can get a loan, it might cost much more.

Businesses may swing freely back and forth through the "zero net worth"
point on their balance, but for individuals, it's rock bottom.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2021 14:39:07 +0000
From: David Damerell <damerell@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Subject: Re: Vintage technology: 'It sounds so much cleaner' (BBC News)

>Funny, backup isn't mentioned. I guess that hadn't been invented yet.

The Psion came with backup software for Windows; these days there are Linux
tools to just enable you to mount it as (very slow; 9600 baud serial)
external storage.

The real Achilles Heel of the Psion is that the screen cable breaks
eventually from folding and unfolding; AFAIK the last company that would
retrofit them with more robust ones stopped a few years ago. If Air Vice
Marshal Maddison has had his for 23 years, I presume he's had it
retrofitted, but lack of availability of parts and spares is the long-term
risk for ancient hardware.

I am not looking forward to the day when I have to replace my Series
5mx with a device with a built-in battery which will have a definitely
finite lifespan.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 16:08:16 +0000
From: Martin Ward <martin@gkc.org.uk>
Subject: Re: Vintage technology: 'It sounds so much cleaner' (BBC News)

The Kermit file transfer protocol and software tools were developed
in 1981 and Kermit been described as the "most widely ported computer
program": it has been used in the International Space Station.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kermit_(protocol)

The Psion 5 has a serial port and, naturally, Kermit has been ported to it:

https://comp.sys.acorn.misc.narkive.com/KQcbZiyk/alternatives-to-psion-5-for-use-with-riscos

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2021 10:26:22 +0000
From: A Michael W Bacon <amichaelwbacon@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: (Page, RISKS-32.52)

Clive Page (RISKS-32.52) will not need to trouble his physician this year or
in the future.  Since May 2013, no Yellow Fever booster is necessary after
10 years, the vaccine is recognised by the WHO and internationally as
providing immunity for life.

However, in considering vaccination certificates, there are major
differences between the booklet which he, and I and others hold, and
certification of vaccination against Covid-19 (in the current global
situation).  In no particular order:

1. Yellow Fever is not person-to-person transmissible; as with malaria, the
   vector is the mosquito.

Covid is highly transmissible between people, airborne in droplets and
aerosols and via surfaces.

2. Possession of a Yellow Fever vaccination certificate benefits the holder
   in enabling travel from a country where the disease is endemic to another
   country requiring evidence of vaccination - and there are relatively few
   of these.  It is a requirement for entry (albeit, it might be checked by
   the carrier at the port of embarkation).  Further, it is a requirement at
   country level.

Covid vaccination certificates are being touted as a facilitation for exit
from a country, with holiday companies such as Saga (specialising in cruises
and package holidays for older people) insisting on evidence of full
vaccination before boarding (when foreign holidays are allowed from the UK).
Many airlines are reportedly pressuring governments to make possession of a
certificate a condition for boarding (which would relieve them of making it
a contractual matter, open to challenge in the courts).  Israel's "Green
Pass" - a Covid vaccination certificate - is fast becoming a requirement for
entry to establishments such a gyms.  Such a requirement is being actively
promoted by commercial interests in other countries as a way of re-opening
businesses that are currently "locked-down".  A (potential) requirement at a
building level.

3. The Yellow Fever vaccination certificate is essentially valueless, there
   is relatively little point in forging one.  Certainly in the "First
   World" (and under normal circumstances) aspiring travelers can arrange
   to be vaccinated essentially on demand, for a small fee.

Delivery of Covid vaccinations is being rationed, most commonly by age
group, starting with the oldest and working backwards to the youngest who
will be vaccinated.  You will get vaccinated when it's your turn, queue
jumping is unlikely.  This creates value in forgeries.  Consider a family
with a booked foreign holiday that is non-refundable: one member is
vaccinated before travel, one or more other, younger members are not.  There
will be a strong incentive to obtain a forged certificate, and they will be
available.  Under the UK's current vaccination programme, with a 12-week gap
between first and second doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer
vaccines, it might well be the end of October before the last of the
20-year-olds is fully vaccinated ... having missed their summer partying in
Ibiza.  Given their oft-demonstrated refusal to recognise the dangers to
them and others of maskless massed mixing, a 100-pound (say) forgery might
well be attractive to youngsters wanting to take their pleasures as usual.
If possession of a certificate becomes a condition of travel, either
nationally or internationally, every traveler (possibly excepting the
under-20s) will need a certificate.  Those who are "vaccine hesitant" or
committed anti-vaxxers, but who want to holiday abroad, might be tempted to
acquire a forged document.

4. The traveler carries the internationally-recognised paper Yellow Fever
   vaccination certificate with them.  The key information on the
   certificate is sparse: the holder's name, the date and place of
   vaccination, and an official rubber-stamp.  Essentially there are no
   privacy issues.  Relatively few of the world's population have a
   certificate.

Current discussions for a Covid vaccination certificate are at an early
stage, but at national as well as international level.  Israel has already
issued its "Green Pass", whether it is widely acceptable outside the country
is untested.  The format of an international certificate, whether
paper-based or electronic, and the information contained are open to
decision.  If the certificate is electronic there will be serious questions
about personal data and processing outside countries with 'adequate' laws;
it will need to be readable at all ports of disembarkation - it will take
time to install the necessary equipment (think "Least developed countries").
Because of the forgery risk, there will be requirements for validation,
raising further questions over data transfer, the location, accessibility,
accuracy, completeness, reliability and security of the databases, and what
data they contain.

5. Since 2013 the Yellow Fever certificate has been for the life of the
   holder.

It seems very likely that "booster" Covid inoculations will be required,
possibly on an annual basis, as happens in many countries with influenza
vaccinations.  The certificate will need to be updated each time.

6. Owing to limited demand, Yellow Fever vaccines are not widely held or
   administered and so certificates are issued by relatively few physicians.
   The certificate is issued at the time of vaccination.

Covid vaccinations are being given in hospitals, by general practitioners,
by pharmacists, by military medics, and en masse in special centres,
shopping malls and even car parks.  Few countries have a centralised patient
record system (Israel does) and the completeness and accuracy of records of
who has been vaccinated, with what and how many times, are likely to be
variable.  With no agreed certificate, most of those immunised have minimal
evidence of their vaccination.  At a national level, many countries will
have incomplete records of who has been vaccinated (increasing the potential
for fraud and graft).

7. One vaccine provides immunity against "Yellow Fever".

There are many variants of Covid-19.  There are many Covid vaccines, some
requiring two doses.  It is currently questionable whether any of the
available vaccines provide the same degree of protection against all known
variants, and there is no guarantee that current vaccines will offer
sufficient or even any protection against future variants.  A certificate
will likely need to indicate against which variants the holder is protected,
especially if they are traveling to a country in which one variant is
particularly endemic.

8. A Yellow Fever vaccination certificate holder is not required to
   quarantine upon return from an infected country, and the chances of a new
   variant outbreak are seen as vanishingly small, given the virus's
   stability over a great many years.

An outbreak of a new variant Covid-19 virus somewhere in the traveler's
itinerary might very well trigger a requirement for isolation on their
return to their home country or arrival in the next country on their
itinerary.  In the UK that might cost over =C2=A31,700 per person if
isolated in a "quarantine hotel", and loss of earnings / school time whether
quarantined there or self-isolated (with family) at home.  The evidence of
recent months indicates that such an outbreak is not at all unlikely.

9. Being very limited in its population, the Yellow Fever vaccination
   certificate in no way approaches being an identity document.

A Covid-19 vaccination certificate will likely be required by a majority of
the population, indeed might essentially be forced upon them by government
or commercial pressures.  In such an instance it will become a de facto ID
card ... something still strongly resisted in many Western countries.

10. A Yellow Fever vaccination certificate is essentially voluntary, the
    requirement to have one is very limited.

A Covid vaccination certificate could become essentially mandatory, with
access to some facilities restricted if one cannot be produced.  Some
people, for example among the BAME communities, have deep-seated
reservations about vaccines in general and professed objections to various
Covid vaccines (often because of misconceptions, misinformation and
disinformation).

"Like a Yellow Fever certificate" is trotted out by politicians and the
media whenever a Covid vaccination certificate is discussed.  It is a false
comparison that seriously undersells the adverse potential.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 12:36:08 +0000
From: Clive Page <clivegpage@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Incorrect train simulator a factor in train crash (Brader,
  RISKS-32.53)

I am grateful to Mark Brader for his report in RISKS-32.53 "Confusing
computer-interface complexity causes train crash" and have now read the
report of the Rail Accident Investigation Branch that he cited.  As
usual the crash had multiple causes including the relative inexperience of
the driver on a newish type of train.  But a train simulator issue
caught my eye: the immediate cause of the crash was that the driver found he
could not enter a new headcode for the short trip from Leeds Station to the
maintenance depot and spent 20 seconds grappling with the train management
screens when he should have been looking out of the windscreen. 
While he was distracted his train accelerated much faster than he expected
until he was unable to avoid hitting the one in front.

It turns out that the train computer would only accept a new headcode if the
button "Check Stops" was used before returning to the home screen. 
The manuals produced by the train manufacturer, Hitachi, did not make it
clear that "Check Stops" had to be used even if there were no intermediate
stops.  As a result the training manuals were incorrect.  Not
only that, an App simulating the train management system (produced in the
UK) and a full train simulator (produced in France) also misunderstood this
point so both would accepted a new headcode without use of the Check Stops
button.  It is hardly surprising that the driver did not realise that
this step was essential.

This raises a more general issue: not only train drivers but also airline
pilots rely a great deal on simulators, especially in training them to cope
with rare conditions unlikely to happen in normal training flights: for
example the activation of the flawed MCAS system on the Boeing 737 MAX, or
the icing up of both pitot tubes on an Airbus (which resulted in the AF447
crash off Brazil).  The 737 MAX has now been re-certified in many
countries but no doubt that is partly because extensive sessions on
simulators show that it is now much safer.  But what assurance do we
have that the simulators are themselves correct?

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 18:15:51 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Spy agencies have big hopes for AI (RISKS-32.53)

Fifty years ago, we computer scientists used to sleep soundly at night,
knowing that if all else failed, we could simply pull the plug on an errant
computer.

As Russian interference with Ukrainian power grid has shown us, we are long
past this solution.

If spy agencies start depending upon "AI" in order to translate languages
and spot trends, how do you protect the decision-makers from the *spoofing*
that enables "AI"-powered self-driving vehicles from stopping at fake stop
signs or running over real pedestrians/cyclists ?

E.g., how long did it take "terrorists" to learn that drone strikes were
100% correlated with satellite orbits, and how long did it take Russia,
China, N Korea, Iran, etc., to modify their satellite "signatures" to avoid
raising suspicion ?

Every sensor, whether inanimate or animate, has its limitations, and its
output needs to be cross-checked with *independently derived* information
from other *independent* sources.

With China and the U.S. rushing headlong into this AI-hype future, how long
before a war is started based solely upon "AI"-derived information (on both
sides) ?

Who cares if there's a person-in-the-middle making the dreaded "go/nogo"
decision if the input information is faulty ? The problem won't lie with the
decision-maker, but with the information on which his/her decision is based.

WWI was supposedly an "accidental" war, started by <150 people who
misunderstood the actions of their counterparts in other countries. Which
"AI" has the deep understanding of history to know how "accidental" wars get
started?

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 17:06:59 +0000
From: Martyn Thomas <martyn@72f.org>
Subject: Re: Farms are going to need different kinds of robots (RISKS-32.53)

If precision farming will be worth $12B+ to the global economy by 2027,
perhaps a percentage of this should be invested in providing a robust
terrestrial backup to the GPS signal, as GPS has a range of known
vulnerabilities. Large farms would seem to be attractive targets for a
"protection racket" by anyone with a jammer and a balloon.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 17:49:34 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Farms are going to need different kinds of robots (Stein,
  RISKS-32.52)

"Precision" aka "vertical" farming got its start when a Columbia University
professor challenged his students in 1999. [Wikipedia]

Actually, VF/PF is a good idea, as it trades acreage for technology, and it
will eventually win.

The biggest problems for agriculture are weather, water, pests, land, and
labor. VF/PF solve all of these problems.

Weather: the farm is *indoors*, and semi-climate-controlled.  Water: the
farm is, or can be, sealed, so that water input/output is no longer an issue
-- a godsend for arid areas.  Pests: the farm is *indoors*, so the influx of
pests can be controlled.  Land(*): the farm can be vertically stacked, so
that large footprints of land are no longer needed.  Labor: the racking
system is designed with purpose-built robots in mind.

(*) By giving up land, PF/VF now need large amounts of *electrical power*,
which can be generated by massive solar farms elsewhere -- thus *decoupling*
the absorption of solar power from the actual farming.

Basically, a PF/VF uses precision LED's to produce optimum light conditions
to grow food in areas/latitudes where traditional farms are impossible.

It shouldn't surprise anyone that the leaders in VF today are cannibis growers.
Hopefully, they will pay the way for less expensive crops like vegetables.

  BTW, we're going to have to get really good a PF/VF if we plan to put
  any significant number of humans on the Moon or Mars.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 11:20:00 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Re: Farms are going to need different kinds of robots (Baker,
  RISKS-32.54)

Thanks for your insight Henry. What did Norman Borlaug, *The Father of the
Green Revolutio*, say about vertical farming?

"I agree fully...in support of agricultural biotechnology, which states that
no food products, whether produced with recombinant DNA techniques or more
traditional methods, are totally without risk. The risks posed by foods are
a function of the biological characteristics of those foods and the specific
genes that have been used, not of the processes employed in their
development."

See "Ending World Hunger. The Promise of Biotechnology and the Threat of
Antiscience Zealotry," by Norman E. Borlaug.
https://academic.oup.com/plphys/article/124/2/487/6098810.

Guess he'd be ok with a few bots merged into the food chain despite their
vulnerability to malware pests.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 18:29:10 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Google will remove *facts* if they think they're harmful
  (RISKS-32.53)

I've toyed with the thought of setting up a *tautology server*, which serves
up nothing but *facts* -- e.g., the simplest of which would be "$A or not
$A", where "$A" is *any statement, whatsoever*, for example, "Trump is an
idiot" or "Black Lives Matter" or "COVID-19 vaccines aren't harmful".

The mathematical validity of such 'facts' wouldn't matter, of course, to any
misinformation detector, as they aren't looking for truth; they are merely
looking for a *mention* -- the "Scunthorpe Problem".

The point of this post is to simply remind people that the general problem
of proving some fact wrong is -- wait for it -- *undecidable*, so we're
going to be waiting a long time for an algorithmic solution to something
that isn't amenable to algorithms.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 19:07:13 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Too much choice is hurting America (RISKS-32.54)

Krugman is proof of "Pauling's Principle", that the Nobel Prize is capable
of causing early onset dementia.

IMHO, Krugman's best paper was his 1978 analysis of the effect of relativity
on economic analysis: "The Theory of Interstellar Trade". :-)

His NYTimes article about too much choice is -- depending upon your point of
view -- either 100% right-wing: Henry Ford's "any color so long as it's
black", or 100% communist -- Google "beriozka" (aka "beryozka"), the Soviet
stores catering solely to foreigners that had all the "good stuff".

Economics as a human endeavor goes back hundreds of thousands of years, to
when humans began to *trade* with one another, allowing the exchange of
goods from hundreds and thousands of miles away.  Why did they trade? For
greater *choices*! Indeed, "Economics" (with a capital "E") is the study of
the dramatic increase in human welfare due to these *exchanges* of the
widest variety of goods. P.S., ask yourselves why someone would go to great
effort and expense to transport a good hundreds or thousands of miles unless
someone really wanted it. Indeed, Columbus discovered America by accident
when he really wanted a better route to India and the far East for *trade*.

Krugman has now become an embarrassment to the field of economics.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 14:27:56 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Re: Too much choice is hurting America (Baker, RISKS-32.54)

Henry, Deregulation enables corporate behavior that can jeopardize public
health and safety.

The deregulation choice saddles consumers with increasingly opaque
assumptions of product or service safety. Corporate terms of service shield
corporate governance from accountability with indemnification and liability
clauses.

Paul Krugman's opinions are occasionally controversial, but they are
rigorously investigated, and factually traceable. When Krugman is mistaken,
he apologizes as professional ethics dictate.

Contrast this conduct with a corporation's behavior if their product or
service is discovered and established to enable or cause casualty or data
breach. If "corporations are people," their accountability for an mistake is
vigorously, and unapologetically, defended until or unless a settlement is
reached which may include a gag order prevent settlement term
disclosure. This asymmetry skews the perception of justice rendered to salve
injury from choice.

------------------------------

Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2021 11:05:23 +0100
From: Peter Bernard Ladkin <ladkin@causalis.com>
Subject: Re: Boeing 777 PW4000 engine problems (Risks-32.53)

Richard Stein suggests in Risks-32.53 that commercial transport aircraft
maintenance in general, and engine maintenance in particular, is an example
of the "expert service problem" and quotes the NYTimes article "When Trust
in an Expert is Unwise", by David Leonhardt from 2007-11-07

"...the same expert who is diagnosing the flaw is the one who will be paid
   to fix it. In most of these cases, consumers aren't sophisticated enough
   to make an independent judgment. That's why they went to the expert."

In the case of jet engines in particular, this is misplaced.

One major engine manufacturer, Rolls Royce, does not sell its engines. It
leases them, as "power by the hour". Rolls obtains all the parameters
thought to be useful from its engines every second they are running (and, I
imagine, also from some time when they are not). There are fixed maintenance
cycles, designed to keep these engines running perfectly. The design of
these maintenance cycles is by no means a trivial engineering task, and is
part of airworthiness certification. (Rolls is not the only
mechanical-engineering company which does this. I know of a wind-turbine
company which has complete real-time operating records from each one of its
turbines since it started building them, more than 25,000 of them over round
about three decades.)

There are things which don't go to plan. QF32 on 2010-11-04. That engine
disintegration was finally attributed to a manufacturing quality issue
(parts not satisfying the design specification).

The PW4000 engine which "threw a blade" (to use the technical term :-) ) on
UA328 over Denver on 2021-02-20 had a blade inspection interval of 6,500
cycles (a cycle is a period from engine start-up to shut-down). There had
apparently been way fewer than that many cycles on the engine.

Blades are not supposed to be thrown. It happens when there is "metal
fatigue", as it is known.  There are inspection techniques which determine
whether a fan blade is "serviceable" (as it is called). The point of
inspection cycles is to catch blades exhibiting phenomena associated with
"fatigue" before they fail. The reaction to any unsafe or potentially unsafe
event in commercial aviation is regulatory. The FAA issued an emergency
Airworthiness Directive (EAD) requiring inspection of each fan blade on each
of the 104 installed engines of this type on US carriers. Other regulatory
authorities will have followed suite immediately.

The FAA AD which was derived from the EAD may be read at
https://rgl.faa.gov/Regulatory_and_Guidance_Library/rgad.nsf/0/f8805a359a2d163b862586930059d404/$FILE/2021-05-51.pdf

Readers will notice that it includes a precise dollar-figure estimate of the
cost of compliance. 22 hours labour cost per engine; less than $2,000. Total
cost across all US operators, less than $200,000.

The maintenance of these engines is a matter of regulation. It is part of
the airworthiness certification of the aircraft. The issue for the regulator
is that there is obviously an engineering issue: the manufacturer and
regulator established during certification that these blades should not be
fatiguing inside 6,500 cycles, but one or two now have done. There are
engineering issues: why?  Is it an unanticipated engineering design issue,
or a quality-control matter, or what is it? And there are management issues:
what do we do about it? The obvious short-term answer, encapsulated in the
AD, is: inspect the blades right now, all of them in all engines of this
type. The longer term answer will come when it is known in more detail why
the blade was thrown=2E

Stein is right that there are economic issues involved, but he puts the
finger entirely in the wrong place. The costs of having "experts" address
the issue is trivial, as may be seen from the AD. The cost doesn't compare
with the cost of the airplane not being in service for the time it takes to
conduct the inspection on the two engines.

This is generally the case, and it is why Rolls sells "power by the hour"=2E
Operators do not want their airplanes to be out of service for any
non-scheduled reason, and engine manufacturers sell or lease their engines
based on that client requirement for complete reliability.

Prof. Dr. Peter Bernard Ladkin, Bielefeld, Germany

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 11 Mar 2021 13:03:50 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Allan McDonald Dies at 83; Tried to Stop the Challenger Launch
  (NYTimes)

An engineer for the maker of the shuttle's booster rockets, he opposed
letting it take off, worried that cold weather might affect them. He was
right.

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/09/us/allan-mcdonald-dead.html

  [We've noted Roger Boisjoly before, who was apparently more outspoken.
  It's nice to honor Alan McDonald as well here.  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2020 11:11:11 -0800
From: RISKS-request@csl.sri.com
Subject: Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

 The ACM RISKS Forum is a MODERATED digest.  Its Usenet manifestation is
 comp.risks, the feed for which is donated by panix.com as of June 2011.
=> SUBSCRIPTIONS: The mailman Web interface can be used directly to
 subscribe and unsubscribe:
   http://mls.csl.sri.com/mailman/listinfo/risks

=> SUBMISSIONS: to risks@CSL.sri.com with meaningful SUBJECT: line that
   includes the string `notsp'.  Otherwise your message may not be read.
 *** This attention-string has never changed, but might if spammers use it.
=> SPAM challenge-responses will not be honored.  Instead, use an alternative
 address from which you never send mail where the address becomes public!
=> The complete INFO file (submissions, default disclaimers, archive sites,
 copyright policy, etc.) is online.
   <http://www.CSL.sri.com/risksinfo.html>
 *** Contributors are assumed to have read the full info file for guidelines!

=> OFFICIAL ARCHIVES:  http://www.risks.org takes you to Lindsay Marshall's
    searchable html archive at newcastle:
  http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/VL.IS --> VoLume, ISsue.
  Also, ftp://ftp.sri.com/risks for the current volume/previous directories
     or ftp://ftp.sri.com/VL/risks-VL.IS for previous VoLume
  If none of those work for you, the most recent issue is always at
     http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt, and index at /risks-32.00
  ALTERNATIVE ARCHIVES: http://seclists.org/risks/ (only since mid-2001)
 *** NOTE: If a cited URL fails, we do not try to update them.  Try
  browsing on the keywords in the subject line or cited article leads.
  Apologies for what Office365 and SafeLinks may have done to URLs.
==> Special Offer to Join ACM for readers of the ACM RISKS Forum:
    <http://www.acm.org/joinacm1>

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 32.54
************************
