RISKS-LIST: Risks-Forum Digest  Thursday 31 July 2014  Volume 28 : Issue 12

ACM FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS (comp.risks)
Peter G. Neumann, moderator, chmn ACM Committee on Computers and Public Policy

***** See last item for further information, disclaimers, caveats, etc. *****
This issue is archived at <http://www.risks.org> as
  <http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/28.12.html>
The current issue can be found at
  <http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt>

  Contents:
'Big Brother' airport installs world's first real-time passenger tracking
  system (Soo Kim via Henry Baker)
Federal review stalled after finding forensic errors by FBI lab
  unit spanned two decades (The Washington Post)
NSA's Impact on the Economy, Internet Freedom & Cybersecurity (New America
  via Henry Baker)
The NSA's Cyber-King Goes Corporate (Foreign Policy via Lauren Weinstein)
EFF Releases Privacy Badger (Justin C. Klein Keane)
Fouling the NEST; Who's roo(s)ting in your home? (Henry Baker)
Tor Security Breach found from January to July 2014 (Bob Gezelter)
"Surface Pro 3 problems linger despite three firmware patches in a month"
  (Woody Leonhard via Gene Wirchenko)
"Android vulnerability allows malware to compromise most devices and apps"
  (Lucian Constantin via Gene Wirchenko)
The Security of USB Is Fundamentally Broken (Andy Greenberg via Henry Baker)
"Cyber criminals ride Google coattails in DDoS attacks" (Antone Gonsalves
  via Gene Wirchenko)
"No patch yet for zero day in Symantec Endpoint Protection software driver"
  (Jeremy Kirk via Gene Wirchenko)
"Privacy groups call for action to stop Facebook's off site user tracking
  plans" (Loek Essers  via Gene Wirchenko)
When Web Experiments Violate User Trust, We're All Victims
  (Lauren Weinstein)
"I accidentally started a Wikipedia hoax" (Daily Dot)
When Web Experiments Violate User Trust, We're All Victims
  (Lauren Weinstein)
"Why are fraudsters targeting your child's identity?" (Lindsey Boerma via
  Gene Wirchenko)
Re: Built for Speed: Designing Exascale Computers (Gene Wirchenko)
Re: Disk-sniffing dogs find thumb drives, DVDs? (Tom Russ, Henry Baker)
Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 08:05:55 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: 'Big Brother' airport installs world's first real-time
  passenger tracking system

FYI -- There's only an outcry because we happened to find out about this
one; it wouldn't surprise me to find that this type of activity is going on
at hundreds (thousands?) of locations around the world.  I believe that
Seattle's muni wifi mesh network can (& does) do this type of tracking.

I'm curious if the iPhone iOS8's new mac spoofing interferes with this
system...

http://www.theverge.com/2014/6/9/5792970/ios-8-strikes-an-unexpected-blow-against-location-tracking
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/travelnews/10997539/Big-Brother-airport-installs-worlds-first-real-time-passenger-tracking-system.html

'Big Brother' airport installs world's first real-time passenger tracking
system Civil liberty groups criticise a new tracking device at Helsinki
Airport that can monitor passengers' footsteps, from arrival at the car park
to take-off

By Soo Kim,  29 Jul 2014

All mobile phones logged into the Wi-Fi network at Helsinki Airport will be
monitored by an in-house tracking system that identifies passengers'
real-time movements.

The technology has been criticised by privacy advocate groups, but is said
to be aimed at monitoring crowds and preventing bottlenecking at the
airport, which sees around 15 million passengers a year, Bloomberg reports.

About 150 white boxes, each the size of a wireless Internet router, have
been placed at various points around the airport.  Equipped with tracking
technology from the Finland-based retail analytics company Walkbase, each
device is designed to collect the unique identifier numbers of all mobile
phones which have Wi-Fi access switched on, without the user being notified.

Passengers can also "opt-in" for other services, by logging into the network
via an application such as an airline app or retail store app, to receive
sales offers from the airport;s 35 shops and 32 restaurants and cafes, in
addition to any relevant flight information.

Currently at its initial phase, the full tracking system is expected to be
in place by the end of this year which could enable shops to specifically
target passengers that are within their vicinities, such as a deli that
could alert a passenger walking by of a certain item on sale.

All data collected is said to be in aggregated form, preventing any personal
information from being seen by Finavia Oyi, the Finnish Civil Aviation
Administration operating the airport, as the software discards any unique
identifiers of devices, claims Tuomas Wuoti, the CEO at Walkbase.

But software security analysts find it hard to believe ``location tracking
is only left at statistics'' levels.

``The fact that my movements are tracked is a scarier thought than someone
knowing which websites I visit,'' Antti Tikkanen, director of security
response at the software maker F-Secure Oyj (FSC1V), told Bloomberg.

The technology was also met with concern from customers at the US-based
department store retailer Nordstrom where it was tested last year, who
criticised it for monitoring unwary customers.

Passenger privacy concerns are *extremely important* to the group and the
anonymous monitoring respects customers' privacy, according to Heikki Koski,
vice president of new services at Finavia Oyi.

``We're looking at great paybacks from this investment.  We can manage the
airport better, we can predict where bottlenecks might come and analyse
everything more thoroughly.''

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 07:51:24 -0400
From: "David Farber via ip" <ip@listbox.com>
Subject: Federal review stalled after finding forensic errors by FBI lab
  unit spanned two decades (The Washington Post)

http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/crime/federal-review-stalled-after-finding-forensic-errors-by-fbi-lab-unit-spanned-two-decades/2014/07/29/04ede880-11ee-11e4-9285-4243a40ddc97_story.html 

A Washington Post investigation reveals that Justice Department officials
have known for years that flaws in forensic techniques and weak laboratory
standards may have led to the convictions of innocent people across the
country, raising the question: How many more are out there? Read related
story.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 09:01:42 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: NSA's Impact on the Economy, Internet Freedom & Cybersecurity

This paper details dollar costs, but not the biggest cost, of the NSA's
surveillance program, which is the chilling effect on free speech and the
destruction of the Constitution.

http://oti.newamerica.net/publications/policy/surveillance_costs_the_nsas_impact_on_the_economy_internet_freedom_cybersecurity

Danielle Kehl, Kevin Bankston, Robyn Greene, Robert Morgus, Surveillance
Costs: The NSA's Impact on the Economy, Internet Freedom & Cybersecurity,
New America Foundation, 29 Jul 2014

Read the full paper (pdf).

http://oti.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Surveilance_Costs_Final.pdf

or a short summary (pdf) here.

http://oti.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Surveillance_Costs_Short%20Version.pdf

It has been over a year since The Guardian reported the first story on the
National Security Agency's surveillance programs based on the leaks from
former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, yet the national conversation remains
largely mired in a simplistic debate over the tradeoffs between national
security and individual privacy.  It is time to start weighing the overall
costs and benefits more broadly.  While intelligence officials have
vigorously defended the merits of the NSA programs, they have offered little
hard evidence to prove their value -- and some of the initial analysis
actually suggests that the benefits of these programs are dubious.  Three
different studies -- from the President's Review Group on Intelligence and
Communications Technologies, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight
Board, and the New America Foundation's International Security Program --
question the value of bulk collection programs in stopping terrorist plots
and enhancing national security.  Meanwhile, there has been little sustained
discussion of the costs of the NSA programs beyond their impact on privacy
and liberty, and in particular, how they affect the U.S. economy, American
foreign policy, and the security of the Internet as a whole.

This paper attempts to quantify and categorize the costs of the NSA
surveillance programs since the initial leaks were reported in June 2013.
Our findings indicate that the NSA's actions have already begun to, and
will continue to, cause significant damage to the interests of the United
States and the global Internet community.  Specifically, we have observed
the costs of NSA surveillance in the following four areas:

Direct Economic Costs to U.S. Businesses: American companies have reported
declining sales overseas and lost business opportunities, especially as
foreign companies turn claims of products that can protect users from NSA
spying into a competitive advantage.  The cloud computing industry is
particularly vulnerable and could lose billions of dollars in the next three
to five years as a result of NSA surveillance.

Potential Costs to U.S. Businesses and to the Openness of the Internet from
the Rise of Data Localization and Data Protection Proposals: New proposals
from foreign governments looking to implement data localization requirements
or much stronger data protection laws could compound economic losses in the
long term.  These proposals could also force changes to the architecture of
the global network itself, threatening free expression and privacy if they
are implemented.

Costs to U.S. Foreign Policy: Loss of credibility for the U.S. Internet
Freedom agenda, as well as damage to broader bilateral and multilateral
relations, threaten U.S. foreign policy interests.  Revelations about the
extent of NSA surveillance have already colored a number of critical
interactions with nations such as Germany and Brazil in the past year.

Costs to Cybersecurity: The NSA has done serious damage to Internet security
through its weakening of key encryption standards, insertion of surveillance
backdoors into widely-used hardware and software products, stockpiling
rather than responsibly disclosing information about software security
vulnerabilities, and a variety of offensive hacking operations undermining
the overall security of the global Internet.

The U.S. government has already taken some limited steps to mitigate this
damage and begin the slow, difficult process of rebuilding trust in the
United States as a responsible steward of the Internet.  But the reform
efforts to date have been relatively narrow, focusing primarily on the
surveillance programs' impact on the rights of U.S. citizens.  Based on our
findings, we recommend that the U.S. government take the following steps to
address the broader concern that the NSA's programs are impacting our
economy, our foreign relations, and our cybersecurity:

* Strengthen privacy protections for both Americans and non-Americans,
  within the United States and extraterritorially.

* Provide for increased transparency around government surveillance, both
  from the government and companies.

* Recommit to the Internet Freedom agenda in a way that directly addresses
  issues raised by NSA surveillance, including moving toward international
  human-rights based standards on surveillance.

* Begin the process of restoring trust in cryptography standards through the
  National Institute of Standards and Technology.

* Ensure that the U.S. government does not undermine cybersecurity by
  inserting surveillance backdoors into hardware or software products.

* Help to eliminate security vulnerabilities in software, rather than
  stockpile them.

* Develop clear policies about whether, when, and under what legal standards
  it is permissible for the government to secretly install malware on a
  computer or in a network.

* Separate the offensive and defensive functions of the NSA in order to
  minimize conflicts of interest.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 14:21:39 -0700
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: The NSA's Cyber-King Goes Corporate

*Foreign Policy* via NNSquad
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2014/07/29/the_crypto_king_of_the_NSA_goes_corporate_keith_alexander_patents

  "Keith Alexander, the recently retired director of the National Security
  Agency, left many in Washington slack-jawed when it was reported that he
  might charge companies up to $1 million a month to help them protect their
  computer networks from hackers. What insights or expertise about
  cybersecurity could possibly justify such a sky-high fee, some wondered,
  even for a man as well-connected in the military-industrial complex as the
  former head of the nation's largest intelligence agency?"

 - - -

A world class jerk. That's all I can say without violating my own
public language guidelines.

------------------------------

Date: Jul 29, 2014 12:15 PM
From: "Justin C. Klein Keane" <jukeane@sas.upenn.edu>
Subject: [SECURITY-SIG] EFF Releases Privacy Badger

https://www.eff.org/privacybadger

"Privacy Badger is a browser add-on that stops advertisers and other
third-party trackers from secretly tracking where you go and what pages you
look at on the web.  If an advertiser seems to be tracking you across
multiple websites without your permission, Privacy Badger automatically
blocks that advertiser from loading any more content in your browser.  To
the advertiser, it's like you suddenly disappeared.

Privacy Badger blocks spying ads and invisible trackers. It's there to
ensure that companies can't track your browsing without your consent.

This extension is designed to automatically protect your privacy from third
party trackers that load invisibly when you browse the web. We send the Do
Not Track header with each request, and our extension evaluates the
likelihood that you are still being tracked. If the algorithm deems the
likelihood is too high, we automatically block your request from being sent
to the domain. Please understand that Privacy Badger is in beta, and the
algorithm's determination is not conclusive that the domain is tracking
you."

Justin C. Klein Keane, MA MCIT, IT Sr Project Leader, Information Security
University of Pennsylvania, School of Arts & Sciences

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 07:45:04 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Fouling the NEST; Who's roo(s)ting in your home?

Nest as a peeping tom turkey.  I sure hope that Google gives a hoot, because
otherwise the hackers will be robin us!

Smart Nest Thermostat: A Smart Spy in Your Home
https://www.blackhat.com/us-14/briefings.html

The Nest thermostat is a smart home automation device that aims to learn
about your heating and cooling habits to help optimize your scheduling and
power usage.  Debuted in 2010, the smart NEST devices have been proved a
huge success that Google spent $3.2B to acquire the whole company.  However,
the smartness of the thermostat also breeds security vulnerabilities,
similar to all other smart consumer electronics.  The severity of security
breach has not been fully embraced due to the traditional assumption that
thermostat cannot function more than a thermostat even though users are
enjoying its smartness.

Equipped with two ARM cores, in addition to WiFi and ZigBee chips, this is
no ordinary thermostat.  In this presentation, we will demonstrate our
ability to fully control a Nest with a USB connection within seconds (in our
demonstration, we will show that we can plug in a USB for 15 seconds and
walk away with a fully rooted Nest).  Although OS level security checks are
available and are claimed to be very effective in defeating various attacks,
instead of attacking the higher level software, we went straight for the
hardware and applied OS-guided hardware attacks.  As a result, our method
bypasses the existing firmware signing and allows us to backdoor the Nest
software in any way we choose.  With Internet access, the Nest could now
become a beachhead for an external attacker.  The Nest thermostat is aware
of when you are home and when you are on vacation, meaning a compromise of
the Nest would allow remote attackers to learn the schedule of users.
Furthermore, saved data, including WiFi credentials, would now become
available to attackers.  Besides its original role of monitor the user's
behavior, the smart Nest is now a spy rooted inside a house fully controlled
by attackers.

Using the USB exploit mentioned above, we have loaded a custom compiled
kernel with debug symbols added.  This enables us to explore the software
protocols used by the nest, such as Nest Weave, in order to find potential
vulnerabilities that can be remotely exploited.  Loading a custom kernel
into the system also shows how we have obtained total control of the device,
introducing the potential for rootkits, spyware, rogue services and other
network scanning methods, further allowing the compromise of other nodes
within the local network.

presented by Yier Jin &  Grant Hernandez &  Daniel Buentello

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 07:58:31 -0700
From: "Bob Gezelter" <gezelter@rlgsc.com>
Subject: Tor Security Breach found from January to July 2014

In RISKS 28.10, there was a report of a canceled presentation at BlackHat on
a Tor compromise.  A recent Tor blog article identifies a security breach
involving malevolent nodes. From the posting: ``On July 4 2014 we found a
group of relays that we assume were trying to deanonymize users. They appear
to have been targeting people who operate or access Tor hidden services. The
attack involved modifying Tor protocol headers to do traffic confirmation
attacks..."  The original Tor blog article can be found at:
https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-security-advisory-relay-early-traffic-confirmation-attack

Bob Gezelter, http://www.rlgsc.com

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 09:15:26 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "Surface Pro 3 problems linger despite three firmware patches
  in a month" (Woody Leonhard)

Woody Leonhard | InfoWorld, 28 Jul 2014
Slow/dropped Wi-Fi, heating issues, and lockups persist, but Surface
Pro pro's manual driver installation procedure may help
http://www.infoworld.com/t/tablets/surface-pro-3-problems-linger-despite-three-firmware-patches-in-month-247079

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 09:59:14 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "Android vulnerability allows malware to compromise most
  devices and apps" (Lucian Constantin)

Lucian Constantin, InfoWorld, 29 Jul 2014
Attackers can impersonate trusted developers to gain powerful
privileges on the OS, researchers from Bluebox Security say
http://www.infoworld.com/d/mobile-technology/android-vulnerability-allows-malware-compromise-most-devices-and-apps-247208

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 04:55:00 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: The Security of USB Is Fundamentally Broken (Andy Greenberg)

FYI -- I guess it's time for a USB condom?

Andy Greenberg, *WiReD*, 31 Jul 2014
http://www.wired.com/2014/07/usb-security/

Computer users pass around USB sticks like silicon business cards.  Although
we know they often carry malware infections, we depend on antivirus scans
and the occasional reformatting to keep our thumbdrives from becoming the
carrier for the next digital epidemic.  But the security problems with USB
devices run deeper than you think: Their risk isn't just in what they carry,
it's built into the core of how they work.

That's the takeaway from findings security researchers Karsten Nohl and
Jakob Lell plan to present next week, demonstrating a collection of
proof-of-concept malicious software that highlights how the security of USB
devices has long been fundamentally broken.  The malware they created,
called BadUSB, can be installed on a USB device to completely take over a
PC, invisibly alter files installed from the memory stick, or even redirect
the user's Internet traffic.  Because BadUSB resides not in the flash memory
storage of USB devices, but in the firmware that controls their basic
functions, the attack code can remain hidden long after the contents of the
device's memory would appear to the average user to be deleted.  And the two
researchers say there's no easy fix: The kind of compromise they're
demonstrating is nearly impossible to counter without banning the sharing of
USB devices or filling your port with superglue.

``These problems can't be patched,'' says Nohl, who will join Lell in
presenting the research at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas.
``We're exploiting the very way that USB is designed.''

Nohl and Lell, researchers for the security consultancy SR Labs, are hardly
the first to point out that USB devices can store and spread malware.  But
the two hackers didn't merely copy their own custom-coded infections into
USB devices' memory.  They spent months reverse engineering the firmware
that runs the basic communication functions of USB devices -- the controller
chips that allow the devices to communicate with a PC and let users move
files on and off of them.  Their central finding is that USB firmware, which
exists in varying forms in all USB devices, can be reprogrammed to hide
attack code.  ``You can give it to your IT security people, they scan it,
delete some files, and give it back to you telling you it's *clean*,'' says
Nohl.  But unless the IT guy has the reverse engineering skills to find and
analyze that firmware, ``the cleaning process doesn't even touch the files
we're talking about.''

The problem isn't limited to thumb drives.  All manner of USB devices from
keyboards and mice to smartphones have firmware that can be reprogrammed --
in addition to USB memory sticks, Nohl and Lell say they've also tested
their attack on an Android handset plugged into a PC.  And once a
BadUSB-infected device is connected to a computer, Nohl and Lell describe a
grab bag of evil tricks it can play.  It can, for example, replace software
being installed with with a corrupted or backdoored version.  It can even
impersonate a USB keyboard to suddenly start typing commands.  ``It can do
whatever you can do with a keyboard, which is basically everything a
computer does,'' says Nohl.

The malware can silently hijack Internet traffic too, changing a computer's
DNS settings to siphon traffic to any servers it pleases.  Or if the code is
planted on a phone or another device with an Internet connection, it can act
as a man-in-the-middle, secretly spying on communications as it relays them
from the victim's machine.

Most of us learned long ago not to run executable files from sketchy USB
sticks.  But old-fashioned USB hygiene can't stop this newer flavor of
infection: Even if users are aware of the potential for attacks, ensuring
that their USB's firmware hasn't been tampered with is nearly impossible.
Nobody can trust anybody,'' says Nohl.

But BadUSB's ability to spread undetectably from USB to PC and back raises
questions about whether it's possible to use USB devices securely at all.
``We've all known if that you give me access to your USB port, I can do bad
things to your computer,'' says University of Pennsylvania computer science
professor Matt Blaze.  ``What this appears to demonstrate is that it's also
possible to go the other direction, which suggests the threat of compromised
USB devices is a very serious practical problem.''

Blaze speculates that the USB attack may in fact already be common practice
for the NSA.  He points to a spying device known as Cottonmouth, revealed
earlier this year in the leaks of Edward Snowden.  The device, which hid in
a USB peripheral plug, was advertised in a collection of NSA internal
documents as surreptitiously installing malware on a target's machine.  The
exact mechanism for that USB attack wasn't described.  ``I wouldn't be
surprised if some of the things [Nohl and Lell] discovered are what we heard
about in the NSA catalogue.''

Nohl says he and Lell reached out to a Taiwanese USB device maker, whom he
declines to name, and warned the company about their BadUSB research.  Over
a series of e-mails, the company repeatedly denied that the attack was
possible.  When WIRED contacted the USB Implementers Forum, a nonprofit
corporation that oversees the USB standard, spokeswoman Liz Nardozza
responded in a statement.  ``Consumers should always ensure their devices
are from a trusted source and that only trusted sources interact with their
devices.  Consumers safeguard their personal belongings and the same effort
should be applied to protect themselves when it comes to technology.''

Nohl agrees: The short-term solution to BadUSB isn't a technical patch so
much as a fundamental change in how we use USB gadgets.  To avoid the
attack, all you have to do is not connect your USB device to computers you
don't own or don't have good reason to trust -- and don't plug untrusted USB
devices into your own computer.  But Nohl admits that makes the convenient
slices of storage we all carry in our pockets, among many other devices,
significantly less useful.  ``In this new way of thinking, you can't trust a
USB just because its storage doesn't contain a virus.  Trust must come from
the fact that no one malicious has ever touched it, You have to consider a
USB infected and throw it away as soon as it touches a non-trusted computer.
And that's incompatible with how we use USB devices right now.''

The two researchers haven't yet decided just which of their BadUSB device
attacks they'll release at Black Hat, if any.  Nohl says he worries that the
malicious firmware for USB sticks could quickly spread.  On the other hand,
he says users need to be aware of the risks.  Some companies could change
their USB policies, for instance, to only use a certain manufacturer's USB
devices and insist that the vendor implement code-signing protections on
their gadgets.

Implementing that new security model will first require convincing device
makers that the threat is real.  The alternative, Nohl says, is to treat USB
devices like hypodermic needles that can't be shared among users -- a model
that sows suspicion and largely defeats the devices' purpose.  ``Perhaps you
remember once when you've connected some USB device to your computer from
someone you don't completely trust.  That means you can't trust your
computer anymore.  This is a threat on a layer that's invisible.  It's a
terrible kind of paranoia.''

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 10:01:04 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "Cyber criminals ride Google coattails in DDoS attacks"
  (Antone Gonsalves)

Antone Gonsalves, InfoWorld, 28 Jul 2014
Cyber criminals are able to launch distributed denial-of-service
attacks against websites by pretending to be Google Web crawlers
http://www.infoworld.com/d/security/cyber-criminals-ride-google-coattails-in-ddos-attacks-247075

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 14:29:09 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "No patch yet for zero day in Symantec Endpoint Protection
  software driver" (Jeremy Kirk)

Jeremy Kirk, Infoworld, 31 Jul 2014
Symantec has published recommendations for mitigating the danger.
A zero-day flaw in a software driver in Symantec's widely used
Endpoint Protection product may be tricky to fix.
http://www.infoworld.com/d/security/no-patch-yet-zero-day-in-symantec-endpoint-protection-software-driver-247384

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 10:03:25 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "Privacy groups call for action to stop Facebook's off site
  user tracking plans" (Loek Essers)

Loek Essers, InfoWorld, 29 Jul 2014
Authorities should act immediately to stop this new vast expansion of
Facebook's data collection and user profiling, US and EU privacy groups said

http://www.infoworld.com/d/security/privacy-groups-call-action-stop-facebooks-site-user-tracking-plans-247186

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 13:15:18 -0700
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: When Web Experiments Violate User Trust, We're All Victims
  (NNSquad)

http://lauren.vortex.com/archive/001078.html

If you ever wonder why it seems like politicians around the world appear to
have decided that their political futures are best served by imposing all
manner of free speech restrictions, censorship, and content controls on Web
services, one might be well served by examining the extent to which Internet
users feel that they've been mistreated and lied to by some services -- how
their trust in those services has been undermined by abusive experiments
that would not likely be tolerated in other aspects of our lives.

To be sure, all experiments are definitely not created equal. Most Web
service providers run experiments of one sort or another, and the vast
majority are both justifiable and harmless. Showing some customers a
different version of a user interface, for example, does not risk real harm
to users, and the same could be said for most experiments that are aimed at
improving site performance and results.

But when sites outright lie to you about things you care about, and that you
have expected those sites to provide to you honestly, that's a wholly
different story, indeed -- and that applies whether or not you're paying
fees for the services involved, and whether or not users are ever informed
later about these shenanigans. Nor do "research use of data" clauses buried
in voluminous Terms of Service text constitute informed consent or some sort
of ethical exception.

You'll likely recall the recent furor over revelations about Facebook
experiments -- in conjunction with outside experimenters -- that
artificially distorted the feed streams of selected users in an effort to
impact their emotions, e.g., show them more negative items than normal, and
see if they'll become depressed.

When belated news of this experiment became known, there was widespread and
much deserved criticism. Facebook and experimenters issued some half-hearted
"sort of" apologies, mostly suggesting that anyone who was concerned just
"didn't understand" the point of the experiment. You know the philosophy:
"Users are just stupid losers!" ...

Now comes word that online dating site OkCupid has been engaging in its own
campaign of lying to users in the guise of experiments.

In OkCupid's case, this revelation comes not in the form of an apology at
all, but rather in a snarky, fetid posting by one of their principals, which
also includes a pitch urging readers to purchase the author's book.

OkCupid apparently performed a range of experiments on users -- some of the
harmless variety. But one in particular fell squarely into the Big Lie
septic tank, involving lying to selected users by claiming that very low
compatibility scores were actually extremely high scores. Then OkCupid sat
back and gleefully watched the fun like teenagers peering through a keyhole
into a bedroom.

Now of course, OkCupid had their "data based" excuse for this. By their
claimed reckoning, their algorithm was basically so inept in the first place
that the only way their could calibrate it was by providing some users
enormously inflated results to see how they'd behave, then studying this
data against control groups who got honest results from the algorithm.

Sorry boy wonders, but that story would get you kicked out of Ethics 101
with a tattoo on your forehead that reads "Never let me near a computer
again, please!"

Really, this is pretty simple stuff. It doesn't take a course in comparative
ethics to figure out when an experiment is harmless and when it's abusive.

Many apologists for these abusive antics are well practiced in the art of
conflation -- that is, trying to confuse the issue by making invalid
comparisons.

So, you'll get the "everybody does experiments" line -- which is true
enough, but as noted above, the vast majority of experiments are harmless
and do not involve lying to your users.

Or we'll hear "this is the same things advertisers try to do -- they're
always playing with our emotions." Certainly advertisers do their utmost to
influence us, but there's a big difference from the cases under discussion
here. We don't usually have a pre-existing trust relationship with those
advertisers of the sort we have with Web services that we use every day, and
that we expect to provide us with honest results, honest answers, and honest
data to the best of their ability.

And naturally there's also the refrain that "these are very small
differences that are often hard to even measure, and aren't important
anyway, so what's the big deal?"

But from an ethical standpoint the magnitude of effects is essentially
irrelevant. The issue is your willingness to lie to your users and purposely
distort data in the first place -- when your users expect you to provide the
most accurate data that you can.

The saddest part though is how this all poisons the well of trust generally,
and causes users to wonder when they're next being lied to or manipulated by
purposely skewed or altered data.

Loss of trust in this way can have lethal consequences. Already, we've seen
how a relatively small number of research ethical lapses in the medical
community have triggered knee-jerk legislative efforts to restrict
legitimate research access to genetic and disease data -- laws that could
cost many lives as critical research is stalled and otherwise stymied. And
underlying this (much as in the case of anti-Internet legislation we noted
earlier) is politicians' willingness to play up to people's fears and
confusion -- and their loss of trust -- in ways that ultimately may be very
damaging to society at large.

Trust is a fundamental aspect of our lives, both on the Net and off.  Once
lost, it can be impossible to ever restore to former levels. The damage is
often permanent, and can ultimately be many orders of magnitude more
devastating than the events that may initially trigger a user trust crisis
itself.

Perhaps something to remember, the next time you're considering lying to
your users in the name of experimentation.

Trust me on this one.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 15:40:43 -0700
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: "I accidentally started a Wikipedia hoax"

*Daily Dot* via NNSquad
http://www.dailydot.com/lol/amelia-bedelia-wikipedia-hoax/

   "I jokingly edited an author's page five and a half years ago.  Today,
   it's still there, and cited by numerous well-respected sources." - EJ
   Dickson

 - - -

"Quality Control" ...

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2014 13:05:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: lauren@vortex.com
Subject: When Web Experiments Violate User Trust, We're All Victims

Lauren Weinstein's Blog Update, 29 Jul 2014
http://lauren.vortex.com/archive/001078.html

If you ever wonder why it seems like politicians around the world appear to
have decided that their political futures are best served by imposing all
manner of free speech restrictions, censorship, and content controls on Web
services, one might be well served by examining the extent to which Internet
users feel that they've been mistreated and lied to by some services -- how
their trust in those services has been undermined by abusive experiments
that would not likely be tolerated in other aspects of our lives.

To be sure, all experiments are definitely not created equal. Most Web
service providers run experiments of one sort or another, and the vast
majority are both justifiable and harmless. Showing some customers a
different version of a user interface, for example, does not risk real harm
to users, and the same could be said for most experiments that are aimed at
improving site performance and results.

But when sites outright lie to you about things you care about, and that you
have expected those sites to provide to you honestly, that's a wholly
different story, indeed -- and that applies whether or not you're paying
fees for the services involved, and whether or not users are ever informed
later about these shenanigans. Nor do "research use of data" clauses buried
in voluminous Terms of Service text constitute informed consent or some sort
of ethical exception.

You'll likely recall the recent furor over revelations about Facebook
experiments -- in conjunction with outside experimenters -- that
artificially distorted the feed streams of selected users in an effort to
impact their emotions, e.g., show them more negative items than normal, and
see if they'll become depressed.

When belated news of this experiment became known, there was widespread and
much deserved criticism. Facebook and experimenters issued some half-hearted
"sort of" apologies, mostly suggesting that anyone who was concerned just
"didn't understand" the point of the experiment. You know the philosophy:
"Users are just stupid losers!" ...

Now comes word that online dating site OkCupid has been engaging in its own
campaign of lying to users in the guise of experiments.

In OkCupid's case, this revelation comes not in the form of an apology at
all, but rather in a snarky, fetid posting by one of their principals, which
also includes a pitch urging readers to purchase the author's book.

OkCupid apparently performed a range of experiments on users -- some of the
harmless variety. But one in particular fell squarely into the Big Lie
septic tank, involving lying to selected users by claiming that very low
compatibility scores were actually extremely high scores. Then OkCupid sat
back and gleefully watched the fun like teenagers peering through a keyhole
into a bedroom.

Now of course, OkCupid had their "data based" excuse for this. By their
claimed reckoning, their algorithm was basically so inept in the first place
that the only way their could calibrate it was by providing some users
enormously inflated results to see how they'd behave, then studying this
data against control groups who got honest results from the algorithm.

Sorry, boy wonders, but that story would get you kicked out of Ethics 101
with a tattoo on your forehead that reads "Never let me near a computer
again, please!"

Really, this is pretty simple stuff. It doesn't take a course in comparative
ethics to figure out when an experiment is harmless and when it's abusive.

Many apologists for these abusive antics are well practiced in the art of
conflation -- that is, trying to confuse the issue by making invalid
comparisons.

So, you'll get the "everybody does experiments" line -- which is true
enough, but as noted above, the vast majority of experiments are harmless
and do not involve lying to your users.

Or we'll hear "this is the same things advertisers try to do -- they're
always playing with our emotions." Certainly advertisers do their utmost to
influence us, but there's a big difference from the cases under discussion
here. We don't usually have a pre-existing trust relationship with those
advertisers of the sort we have with Web services that we use every day, and
that we expect to provide us with honest results, honest answers, and honest
data to the best of their ability.

And naturally there's also the refrain that "these are very small
differences that are often hard to even measure, and aren't important
anyway, so what's the big deal?"

But from an ethical standpoint the magnitude of effects is essentially
irrelevant. The issue is your willingness to lie to your users and purposely
distort data in the first place -- when your users expect you to provide the
most accurate data that you can.

The saddest part though is how this all poisons the well of trust generally,
and causes users to wonder when they're next being lied to or manipulated by
purposely skewed or altered data.

Loss of trust in this way can have lethal consequences. Already, we've seen
how a relatively small number of research ethical lapses in the medical
community have triggered knee-jerk legislative efforts to restrict
legitimate research access to genetic and disease data -- laws that could
cost many lives as critical research is stalled and otherwise stymied. And
underlying this (much as in the case of anti-Internet legislation we noted
earlier) is politicians' willingness to play up to people's fears and
confusion -- and their loss of trust -- in ways that ultimately may be very
damaging to society at large.

Trust is a fundamental aspect of our lives, both on the Net and off.  Once
lost, it can be impossible to ever restore to former levels. The damage is
often permanent, and can ultimately be many orders of magnitude more
devastating than the events that may initially trigger a user trust crisis
itself.

Perhaps something to remember, the next time you're considering lying to
your users in the name of experimentation.

Trust me on this one.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 30 Jul 2014 17:54:48 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: "Why are fraudsters targeting your child's identity?"
  (Lindsey Boerma)

Lindsey Boerma, CBS News, 30 Jul 2014
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/synthetic-id-theft-why-are-fraudsters-targeting-your-childs-identity/

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 30 Jul 2014 15:14:12 -0700
From: Gene Wirchenko <genew@telus.net>
Subject: Re: Built for Speed: Designing Exascale Computers (Hayes, RISKS-28.11)

I assume that you are referring to the "1,018" that should have been 10 to
the 18th.  I just looked at the page, and it did not have the wording around
the error.  Either it was a misquote, or a correction has been done and more
than just the bad number was changed.

When numbers look weirdly way too small, I suspect missing superscripting.

  [Also noted in part by Gary Hinson.  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 31 Jul 2014 13:56:28 -0700
From: Tom Russ <taruss2000@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Disk-sniffing dogs find thumb drives, DVDs? (Rivard, RISKS-28.10)

But I'm fairly certain that pirated bits don't smell any different than
regular bits.

I would expect the pirated bits to have a faint whiff of rum about them.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 30 Jul 2014 13:47:57 -0700
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: Disk-sniffing dogs find thumb drives, DVDs? (Rivard, RISKS-28.11)

What about Bits in Heat ?  ;-)

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 7 Oct 2012 20:20:16 -0900
From: RISKS-request@csl.sri.com
Subject: Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

 The ACM RISKS Forum is a MODERATED digest. Its Usenet manifestation is
 comp.risks, the feed for which is donated by panix.com as of June 2011.
=> SUBSCRIPTIONS: PLEASE read RISKS as a newsgroup (comp.risks or equivalent)
 if possible and convenient for you.  The mailman Web interface can
 be used directly to subscribe and unsubscribe:
   http://lists.csl.sri.com/mailman/listinfo/risks
 Alternatively, to subscribe or unsubscribe via e-mail to mailman
 your FROM: address, send a message to
   risks-request@csl.sri.com
 containing only the one-word text subscribe or unsubscribe.  You may
 also specify a different receiving address: subscribe address= ... .
 You may short-circuit that process by sending directly to either
   risks-subscribe@csl.sri.com or risks-unsubscribe@csl.sri.com
 depending on which action is to be taken.

 Subscription and unsubscription requests require that you reply to a
 confirmation message sent to the subscribing mail address.  Instructions
 are included in the confirmation message.  Each issue of RISKS that you
 receive contains information on how to post, unsubscribe, etc.

=> The complete INFO file (submissions, default disclaimers, archive sites,
 copyright policy, etc.) is online.
   <http://www.CSL.sri.com/risksinfo.html>
 *** Contributors are assumed to have read the full info file for guidelines.

=> .UK users may contact <Lindsay.Marshall@newcastle.ac.uk>.
=> SPAM challenge-responses will not be honored.  Instead, use an alternative
 address from which you NEVER send mail!
=> SUBMISSIONS: to risks@CSL.sri.com with meaningful SUBJECT: line.
 *** NOTE: Including the string `notsp' at the beginning or end of the subject
 *** line will be very helpful in separating real contributions from spam.
 *** This attention-string may change, so watch this space now and then.
=> ARCHIVES: ftp://ftp.sri.com/risks for current volume
     or ftp://ftp.sri.com/VL/risks for previous VoLume
 http://www.risks.org takes you to Lindsay Marshall's searchable archive at
 newcastle: http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/VL.IS.html gets you VoLume, ISsue.
   Lindsay has also added to the Newcastle catless site a palmtop version
   of the most recent RISKS issue and a WAP version that works for many but
   not all telephones: http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/w/r
 <http://the.wiretapped.net/security/info/textfiles/risks-digest/> .
==> PGN's comprehensive historical Illustrative Risks summary of one liners:
    <http://www.csl.sri.com/illustrative.html> for browsing,
    <http://www.csl.sri.com/illustrative.pdf> or .ps for printing
  is no longer maintained up-to-date except for recent election problems.
 *** NOTE: If a cited URL fails, we do not try to update them.  Try
  browsing on the keywords in the subject line or cited article leads.
==> Special Offer to Join ACM for readers of the ACM RISKS Forum:
    <http://www.acm.org/joinacm1>

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 28.12
************************

--_002_dec3ec029229413eb637d6203ef1460fEXHUBVM02campusnclacuk_--
