Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
precedence: bulk
Subject: Risks Digest 31.06

RISKS-LIST: Risks-Forum Digest  Wednesday 13 February 2019  Volume 31 : Issue 06

ACM FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS (comp.risks)
Peter G. Neumann, moderator, chmn ACM Committee on Computers and Public Policy

***** See last item for further information, disclaimers, caveats, etc. *****
This issue is archived at <http://www.risks.orgas
  <http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/31.06>
The current issue can also be found at
  <http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt>

  Contents:
'A Trail of Decisions Kept Lion Air Pilots in the Dark' (NYT)
The infrastructural humiliation of America (TechCrunch)
Investigation finds Navy leaders ignored warnings for years before
  one of the deadliest crashes in decades (ProPublica)
Spectre: Do Loose Lips Sink Chips? (Henry Baker)
Mayhem, the Machine That Finds Software Vulnerabilities, Then Patches Them
  (IEEE Spectrum)
Beware of Cars With Minds of Their Own (Bloomberg)
Goodbye trolley problem: This is Silicon Valley's new ethics test (WashPost)
A Machine Gets High Marks for Diagnosing Sick Children (SciAm)
Where's my paycheck? Wells Fargo customers say direct deposits not showing
  up after outage (USA Today)
Network outage prevents bike rentals (Jeremy Epstein)
USB sticks can take it ... (Rob Slade)
Some AT&T iPhones Displaying Misleading '5G E' Icon in iOS 12.2 Beta 2
  (MacRumors)
Japan gears up for mega hack of its own citizens (Straits Times)
Indecent disclosure (Ars Technica)
LibreOffice and Apache OpenOffice vulnerable to same bug; only one is fixed.
  (Ars Technica)
There's No Good Reason To Trust Blockchain Technology (Bruce Schneier/WiReD)
Fire -- and lots of it: Berkeley researcher on the only way to fix
  cryptocurrency (Ars Technica)
Navigating Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP: How Google Is Quietly Making Blockchains
  Searchable (Forbes)
Crypto CEO dies holding only passwords that can unlock millions in
  customer coins (geoff goodfellow)
`Zero Trust' AI: Too Much of a Good Thing is Wonderful (Henry Baker)
FDA proposes a supply chain tracking overhaul (Fortune)
Why CAPTCHAs have gotten so difficult (The Verge)
Situation Normal, All Zucked Up (Japan News)
Google Began Censoring Search Results in Russia, Reports Say (Moscow Times)
Security Researcher Assaulted Following Vulnerability Disclosure (SecJuice)
NSO Group attacking investigators (Rob Slade)
How does NYPD surveil thee? Let me count the Waze (Henry Baker)
How Hackers and Scammers Break into iCloud-Locked iPhones (Motherboard)
Airline Passengers Potentially at Risk From Check-In Flaws (EWeek)
Privacy, transparency, and increasing digital trust (David Strom)
Many popular iPhone apps secretly record your screen without asking
  (TechCrunch)
Apple allows screen captures of evertyhing that you do ... (Rob Slade)
HP's ink DRM instructs your printer to ignore the ink in your cartridge
  when you cancel your subscription (BoingBoing)
The perils of using Internet Explorer as your default browser
  (TechCommunity)
Judge orders $150,000 in damages in GTA Online cheating case (Ars Technica)
Maybe he'll die of the plague and we can all breathe easier ... (Rob Slade)
Re: Deep Fakes (PGN)
Re: Google, you sent this to too many people, so it must be spam
  (Dan Jacobson)
Re: Passwords, escrow, and fallback positions (Rob Slade)
Re: Is it time for Linux? (Aaron M. Ucko)
Re: Minor Crimes and Misdemeanors in the Age of Automation (Mark Brader)
An Enthralling and Terrifying History of the Nuclear Meltdown at Chernobyl
  (NYTimes)
Revised UK Code of Practice for testing Automated Vehicles (Martyn Thomas)
Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 08:33:27 -0800
From: Prashanth Mundkur <prashanth.mundkur@gmail.com>
Subject: 'A Trail of Decisions Kept Lion Air Pilots in the Dark' (NYT)

Behind the Lion Air Crash, a Trail of Decisions Kept Pilots in the Dark
By James Glanz, Julie Creswell, Thomas Kaplan and Zach Wichter
Feb. 3, 2019
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/03/world/asia/lion-air-plane-crash-pilots.html

  In designing the 737 Max, Boeing decided to feed MCAS with data from
  only one of the two angle of attack sensors at a time, depending on which
  of two, redundant flight control computers -- one on the captain's side,
  one on the first officer's side -- happened to be active on that flight.

  That decision kept the system simpler, but also left it vulnerable to a
  single malfunctioning sensor, or data improperly transferred from it -- as
  appeared to occur on the day of the crash.

  There is no evidence that Boeing did flight-testing of MCAS with erroneous
  sensor data, and it is not clear whether the F.A.A. did so. European
  regulators flight-tested the new version of the plane with normal sensor
  data feeding into MCAS but not with bad data, the pilot familiar with the
  European certification process said. [...]

  Older 737s had another way of addressing certain problems with the
  stabilizers: Pulling back on the yoke, or control column, one of which
  sits immediately in front of both the captain and the first officer, would
  cut off electronic control of the stabilizers, allowing the pilots to
  control them manually.

  That feature was disabled on the Max when MCAS was activated -- another
  change that pilots were unlikely to have been aware of. After the crash,
  Boeing told airlines that when MCAS is activated, as it appeared to have
  been on the Lion Air flight, pulling back on the control column will not
  stop so-called stabilizer runaway.

There's a lot more context in the full article.

------------------------------

Date: February 5, 2019 at 4:00:40 PM GMT+9
From: Dewayne Hendricks <dewayne@warpspeed.com>
Subject: The infrastructural humiliation of America (TechCrunch)

  [Note:  This item comes from friend Robert Berger.  DLH]

The infrastructural humiliation of America
Jon Evans, TechCrunch, 3 Feb 2019
https://techcrunch.com/2019/02/03/the-infrastructural-humiliation-of-america/

I'm flying back to the USA today, and as an infrastructure aficionado, it's
nice to be going home, but I'm dreading the disappointment. I just spent two
weeks in Singapore and Thailand; last year I spent time in Hong Kong and
Shenzhen; and compared to modern Asia, so much American infrastructure is
now so contemptible that it's hard not to wince when I see it.

The USA is nine times wealthier than Thailand, per capita, but I'd far
rather ride Bangkok's SkyTrain than deal with NYC's subway nowadays. I'd
much prefer to fly into Don Muang, Bangkok's ancient second-tier airport --
which was actually closed for years, before being reopened to handle
domestic flights and low-cost airlines -- than the hostile nightmare that is
LAX. And those are America's two primary gateway cities!

So imagine what it's like coming to America from wealthy Asian nations, and
their gleaming, polished, metronomically reliable subways, trains, and
airports. I don't think Americans understand just how that comparison has
become a quiet ongoing national humiliation. If they did, sheer national
(and civic) pride would make them want to do something about it. Instead
there's a learned helplessness about most American infrastructure nowadays,
a wrong but certain belief that it's unrealistic to dream of anything
better.

It's not just those two cities. Compare Boston's T to, say, Taipei, or San
Francisco's mishmash of messed-up systems -- Muni, where I have waited 45
minutes for a T-Third; CalTrain, which only runs every 90 minutes on
weekends; BART, which squandered millions on its useless white-elephant
Milbrae station -- to Shenzhen. And it's not just age; Paris's metro was
inaugurated in 1900, but its well-maintained system continues to run
excellently and expand continuously.

Americans still tend to think of themselves as an example to other
nations. Ha. I assure you, over the last few years nobody has flown from
Seoul or Taipei or Tokyo or Singapore or Hong Kong or Shenzhen into Newark
Airport; taken the AirTrain to the NJ Transit station; waited for the
rattling, decrepit train into the city; walked through the repellent
ugliness of Penn Station to the subway; waited for its ever-increasing
delays; ridden to their destination; and finally emerged into New York City
-- the nation's alpha city!  -- still thinking of the USA as anything other
than a counterexample, or maybe a cautionary tale.

This goes beyond transport infrastructure. Airport security measures are
much more sensible in Asia. Payments are increasingly separately structured,
and better, too -- in many places, credit cards (which already barely exist
as a concept in China) are beginning to slowly wither away, replaced by
Alipay and to a lesser extent WeChat Pay. (Not least because an ever-growing
proportion of the tourist population is Chinese rather than Western,
nowadays.)

That's admittedly an example of leapfrogging, not decay, and American
infrastructure does still have some bright spots. American roads are mostly
still superb. Lyft and Uber are much better than their Southeast Asian
equivalent Grab, which, whenever I checked it during this latest trip, was
invariably both slower and more expensive than a taxi (never mind a tuk-tuk)
despite the infamous Thai taxi mafias. International mobile connectivity is
excellent and user-friendly and reasonably priced, at least if you're on
T-Mobile like me, and as an added bonus, due to a technical quirk, mobile
data roaming bypasses China's Great Firewall.

But that doesn't change the fact that the state of much of America's
infrastructure is appalling on its face, and even moreso when compared to
nations which are on paper nowhere near as rich. The money other nations
spend on urban infrastructure (don't even get me started on intercity
trains) is instead siphoned off to somewhere else. It makes the USA -- still
by far the wealthiest country in the world!  -- seem like an dying empire,
one beginning to visibly crack and crumble as it is slowly hollowed out from
within.

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2019 13:04:02 +0900
From: "Dave Farber" <farber@gmail.com>
Subject: Investigation finds Navy leaders ignored warnings for years before
  one of the deadliest crashes in decades (ProPublica)

Investigation finds officials ignored warnings for years before one of the
deadliest crashes in decades. Read the full story.
Shared from Apple News

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 05 Feb 2019 15:04:11 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: Spectre: Do Loose Lips Sink Chips?

I certainly hope so, when the chips are flawed enough not to be fit for
purpose -- i.e., run secure servers, run secure laptop software, run secure
cellphone apps.

But Prof. Gus Uht argues that "no public disclosure should be made at all,
until and unless the exploit appears in the wild."  "it can unnecessarily
ratchet up the public's anxieties."  "Better yet, don't even tell the world
that such a thing as a 'bomb' exists.  Just knowing that something can be
done is enough to drive others to successful re-invention."  [Uh, OK; Truman
should have waited for the "quiet" A-bomb, because the most significant
piece of information that the USSR needed was that once they spent $XXX
billion, the damned thing would actually go off.  And we're still

dealing with the blowback from the Stuxnet "victory".]

https://www.sigarch.org/lets-keep-it-to-ourselves-dont-disclose-vulnerabilities/

Perhaps Prof. Uht has forgotten the issues he ran on in his campaign for the
Rhode Island House of Representatives in 2012: "I have worked to keep our
local public water system safe and will continue to do so because we can't
afford not to."

If Prof. Uht had extended his "Let's Keep it to Ourselves: Don't Disclose
Vulnerabilities" attitude to the Flint water crisis, even more children
would have come down with lead poisoning.

https://web.archive.org/web/20131208062116/http://votegusuht.org/issues.html

'As Rhode Islanders, we should never fear the air we breathe or have to
worry about exposing our children to toxic chemicals.  Development is fine
when it is monitored and done seamlessly in our community, but not at the
expense of our natural resources.  *I have worked to keep our local public
water system safe and will continue to do so because we can't afford not
to.*'

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flint_water_crisis

'[Dr. Marc] Edwards said, "It was the injustice of it all and that the very
agencies that are paid to protect these residents from lead in water, knew
or should've known after June at the very very latest of this year, that
federal law was not being followed in Flint, and that these children and
residents were not being protected.  And ***the extent to which they went to
cover this up*** exposes a new level of arrogance and uncaring that I have
never encountered."'

Gus Uht on Jan 31, 2019 | Tags: Opinion, Security
Let's Keep it to Ourselves: Don't Disclose Vulnerabilities
https://www.sigarch.org/lets-keep-it-to-ourselves-dont-disclose-vulnerabilities/

There are millions of viruses, etc., in the wild today.  Countless new ones
are devised by black-hat hackers all the time.  In order to proactively
defend against new exploits, some white-hatters seek out or create
weaknesses or vulnerabilities and then devise fixes for them.  However, in
some cases, such as Spectre, fixes are not readily apparent, either to the
inventor or the vendor of the target software or hardware.  Regardless of
the existence of a fix or not, the question arises as to what to publicize
or disclose about the vulnerability.  ***We argue that no public disclosure
should be made at all, until and unless the exploit appears in the wild.***

The norm today is to fully disclose vulnerabilities, most often following
the tenets of responsible disclosure.  It is our view that this is not the
best thing to do since it effectively broadcasts weaknesses, and thus aids
and abets black hat hackers as to the best ways to compromise systems.

With the complexity of current hardware and software systems arising from
billions of transistors and millions of lines of code, it is unlikely that
any system will ever be bug-free or vulnerability-free.  There are
effectively an infinite number of unknown vulnerabilities: "Every day, the
AV-TEST Institute registers over 350,000 new malicious programs (malware)
and potentially unwanted applications (PUA)."  What then is the point of
actively 'discovering' new vulnerabilities and disclosing them?  They are
effectively being invented and empower black hats to wreak havoc without
making systems safer.  It is a race to the bottom.  At the same time ***it
can unnecessarily ratchet up the public's anxieties.***

Pros and Cons: Many arguments for full disclosure have been made over the
years, e.g.: Schneier: Full Disclosure of Security Vulnerabilities a 'Damned
Good Idea', Hardware Security and references therein, and Reflections on
trusting SGX.  However, they all seem to miss the basic point: if you don't
want to be blown up, you don't tell the world how to make and use a bomb.
Better yet, don't even tell the world that such a thing as a 'bomb' exists.
Just knowing that something can be done is enough to drive others to
successful re-invention.

One argument for full disclosure is that companies will not fix
vulnerabilities unless they are forced to.  However, at the risk of excusing
less-than-ideal behavior, looking at the situation from a company's
point-of-view shows that inattention to a fix may be reasonable.  There are
a plethora of vulnerabilities and bugs that need to be fixed at any given
time, and resources are limited, so where should such resources be
allocated?  Logically, it would be to address the problems having the
highest potential for damage, that is to minimize overall risk.  Those
vulnerabilities presenting the greatest risk are those that are widely known
and have large deleterious effects, that is, just those that have been
disclosed and widely publicized.  If a vulnerability has little affect, no
one will care about it and it will not lead the news.

Even with responsible disclosure it may be the case that a fix cannot be
made quickly, but the vulnerability inventor decides to fully disclose it
anyway, as in the case of Spectre.  In this case users will be exposed for
possibly a long time, if not permanently.  Without an available fix it seems
irresponsible to disclose such a vulnerability in any way, even
'responsibly.'  Such an apparently indefinite delay occurred with Spectre.
It was fully disclosed in January, 2018, and it was not until mid-Summer
that any kind of effective mitigation that did not severely impact
performance was devised, and then not for all processors.  A
counter-argument can be made that mitigations would not have been devised if
there had not been a full disclosure, since potential mitigation-creators
would not have known about it; however, such mitigations might still have
been too late.

Post Mortem: Was/is there a benefit to the Spectre disclosure?  The
implementation of actual exploits is sufficiently complex and
system-dependent that Spectre has not been widely used (yet); see: There is
no evidence in-the-wild malware is using Meltdown or Spectre, Does malware
based on Spectre exist?, oo7: Low-overhead Defense against Spectre Attacks
via Binary Analysis.  We may not be so lucky the next time.  Although
hardware micro-architects are now aware that security needs to be a
first-class design parameter, now black hatters have another vulnerability
dimension to pursue; who knows what they will come up with?  The world has
been shaken up by the disclosure; was that necessary and helpful?

We can't always tell what's going to happen upon a disclosure; doesn't that
mean we should be cautious, play it safe, and thus not disclose?  Isn't that
the engineering way of doing things?  But it could be said that disclosure
IS the safest approach, long term, since microarchitectures will be
hardened.  But isn't the short-term risk too great?  We want to be able to
live to see the long-term.  Besides, with possibly billions of affected and
unfixable processors in the world, there would continue to be risks in the
long-term.

The Bottom Line: It seems like any attribute, hardware or software, can be
used to detect and affect information or control-processes, it's just a
matter of detailed 'discovery' or invention to figure out how.  So let's not
help black hatters speed things up, get there first and really cause
trouble.  Let's just keep it to ourselves.

Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Laurette Bradley for comments and edits,
Axelle Apvrille for Spectre-related malware information, and Resit Sendag
for comments on an earlier draft of the post.

About the Author: Augustus (Gus) K. Uht is a Professor-in-Residence in the
College of Engineering at the University of Rhode Island.  He received his
PhD from Carnegie-Mellon University, and MEE and BS degrees from Cornell
University.  His areas of research include adaptive systems and instruction
level parallelism.  He is a licensed Professional Engineer.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 13:20:41 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Mayhem, the Machine That Finds Software Vulnerabilities, Then
  Patches Them (IEEE Spectrum)

https://spectrum.ieee.org/computing/software/mayhem-the-machine-that-finds-software-vulnerabilities-then-patches-them

High-speed "find and fix" capability for unpatched, exploitable
vulnerabilities -- artificial White-Hats in a box.

I wonder how well this capability performs against a Stuxnet or the TAO
toolkit?

Risk: Automated software security vulnerabilities detection and patch
reduces vigilance, builds complacency, and compromises organizational
resilience.

Note: "Mayhem" was a malware strain that exploited bash(1) vulnerabilities
(RISKS-28.31).

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 16:46:11 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Beware of Cars With Minds of Their Own (Bloomberg)

https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2019-02-06/self-driving-vehicles-could-develop-minds-of-their-own

"Self-driving vehicles powered by artificial intelligence might not have the
same priorities as their human owners."

"When imagining the effects of vehicle autonomy on our lives, we need to try
thinking like artificial intelligence, not like humans. Then, potential will
emerge for all kinds of strange, counterintuitive behaviors."

Will there be a pill for that? Nevermind "The Trolley Problem." The "where
will it park problem" appears to be a showstopper.

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2019 10:44:00 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Goodbye trolley problem: This is Silicon Valley's new ethics test
  (WashPost)

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/welcome-to-your-new-ethics-test-silicon-valley/2019/02/05/eb9f6e10-2969-11e9-b2fc-721718903bfc_story.html

"Addiction has become another ethical landmine where dopamine hits -- and
how one administers them -- are the key to a company's growth.  E-cigarette
maker Juul Labs, founded in 2017 and now the fastest growing start-up in
history, with a valuation of $38 billion, is largely responsible for a grave
new statistic: about 20 percent of teens have admitted to vaping in
school. In many ways, that shouldn't surprise us.  Juul is the logical
extension of the Silicon Valley growth-hacking playbook: Design a flawless
product, add a dopamine response, stir in some influencers and watch your
product, game or app go viral."

Technologically-fueled addictions embody covert institutionalized violence
(https://www.radford.edu/~gmartin/IPPNO%2520Doc.html)

Regulators and legislators accept them as a relatively harmless means to
satisfy dopamine delivery desire.

Addictive products generate sales taxes, income taxes, and the business
lobby contributes campaign funds to sustain "wrist-slap regulatory
oversight" in exchange for a franchise to exploit human frailty.  Standard
operating procedure for capitalism.

 From the "Blues Brothers"
(https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0080455/%3Fref_%3Dnv_sr_1

"Maury Sline: Hold it, hold it. Tomorrow night? What are you talking about?
A gig like that, you gotta prepare the proper exploitation."

"Elwood: I know all about that stuff. I have been exploited all my life."

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 11 Feb 2019 21:38:56 -0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: A Machine Gets High Marks for Diagnosing Sick Children (SciAm)

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/a-machine-gets-high-marks-for-diagnosing-sick-children/

"The machine received good grades, agreeing with the humans about 90 percent
of the time. It was especially effective at identifying neuropsychiatric
conditions and upper respiratory diseases. For acute upper-respiratory
infection, the most common diagnosis in the huge patient group, the AI
system got it right 95 percent of the time. Would 95 percent be good enough?
One of the next questions that needs to be researched, Zhang says, is
whether the system will miss something dire.  The benchmark, he says, should
be how senior physicians perform, which also is not 100 percent."

"Study Suggests Medical Errors Now Third Leading Cause of Death in the U.S."
https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/news/media/releases/study_suggests_medical_errors_now_third_leading_cause_of_death_in_the_us
says, "using hospital admission rates from 2013, they extrapolated that
based on a total of 35,416,020 hospitalizations, 251,454 deaths stemmed from
a medical error, which the researchers say now translates to 9.5 percent of
all deaths each year in the U.S."

"Medical errors" are categorized by a spectrum.
http://www.covermd.com/Resources/Medical-Errors-List.aspx identifies "The
Ten Most Common Medical Errors in the US."

When a "difference of diagnostic opinion" arises between the silicon-based
physician-assistant (SiMD) and the carbon-based attending physician (CMD),
how are these conflicts resolved? Will a hospital require a "vote" by
multiple CMDs to overrule the SiMD's? What is the protocol?

What happens when both SiMD and CMD diagnostic opinions align, but they are
both wrong, and the patient is given inappropriate treatment? In an
emergency situation where CMD resource is stretched, what priority will be
given to the SiMD's diagnostic findings?

If SiMD's can be shown to reduce medical error rates, then their role as an
adjunct to a physician's judgment may be appropriate.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 10:32:34 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Where's my paycheck? Wells Fargo customers say direct deposits not
  showing up after outage

Social media users said Friday they were having trouble seeing paychecks and
direct deposits in their Wells Fargo online and mobile banking accounts.

https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/02/08/wells-fargo-outage-customers-report-issues-paychecks-deposits/2810562002/

Earlier:
Wells Fargo says working to fully restore system as outage spills into day 2
https://www.cnbc.com/2019/02/08/wells-fargo-says-working-to-fully-restore-system-as-outage-spills-into-day-2.html

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 16:39:56 -0500
From: Jeremy Epstein <jeremy.j.epstein@gmail.com>
Subject: Network outage prevents bike rentals

Ah, for the simpler days before bike rentals.

Capital BikeShare (which is the largest bike rental in the Washington DC
area) reports that "an issue that has left about 10% of stations temporarily
out of service. These stations became disconnected from the network
yesterday, meaning users could not use the Capital Bikeshare app or kiosk to
unlock a bike when visiting one of these stations."

Ironically, the link at the top of the page titled "System Alert" about the
problem leads to
https://www.capitalbikeshare.com/blog/technical-issues-at-stations gives a
404.  Seems appropriate.

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 12:24:44 -0800
From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>
Subject: USB sticks can take it ...

Wanna know what to store your data on if you want to keep it available?

A USB stick.

There are impressive tales of them surviving, well, pretty much anything.

So here's one more.
https://www.niwa.co.nz/news/they-were-defrosting-leopard-seal-pooyou-wont-believe-what-happened-next or https://is.gd/FgDUCV

A leopard seal ate one.  And pooped it out.  The poop (you can call it scat
if you don't like poop) was collected and then frozen for more than a year.
It was then defrosted and rinsed under a tap to get the big bits out.  One
of the big bits was the USB stick.  It was dried out for a couple of weeks,
and they still accessed a bunch of photos.

(If you've been hanging out around New Zealand beaches with a blue kayak,
you might want to look at the photos ...)

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2019 15:08:34 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Some AT&T iPhones Displaying Misleading '5G E' Icon in iOS 12.2
  Beta 2 (MacRumors)

Some AT&T users who have installed the new iOS 12.2 beta are noticing their
iPhones displaying a '5G E' connection to AT&T's network, which is AT&T's
misleading name for an "upgraded" version of 4G LTE.

AT&T began rolling out its fake 5G icon to Android smartphones in early
January, and it now appears the change is extending to the iPhone. ...

Update: AT&T has provided the following statement to MacRumors on the new
icon in iOS 12.2 beta 2: "Today, some iPhone and iPad users could start
seeing our 5G Evolution indicator on their devices. The indicator simply
helps customers know when they are in an area where the 5G Evolution
experience may be available."

https://www.macrumors.com/2019/02/04/att-iphones-5ge-icon-beta-2/

The risks? AT&T, 5G, marketing...

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 13:51:18 +0800
From: Richard Stein <rmstein@ieee.org>
Subject: Japan gears up for mega hack of its own citizens (Straits Times)

https://www.straitstimes.com/opinion/japan-targets-complacency-with-cyber-attack-on-citizens
(behind straitstimes.com and ft.com paywall under Leo Lewis byline)

Japan's minister of cyber-security, Yoshitaka Sakurada, is poised to
initiate a homeland 'readiness' cyberattack against ~200M Internet-connected
devices. The "attack" is part of a 5-year experiment, per Shinzo Abe's
"Society 5.0" plan, to energize Japan's industrial and IoT competitiveness.
https://techcrunch.com/2019/02/02/japans-society-5-0-initiative-is-a-roadmap-for-todays-entrepreneurs/

"At best, say cyber-security experts at FireEye, the experiment could rip
through corporate Japan's complacency and elevate security planning from the
IT department to the C-Suite."

"There remain deep, unresolved questions of whether manufacturers of IoT
devices or their users should have responsibility for ensuring security and
a nagging concern that the government's mega-hack will not conjure up an
answer."

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 10:01:07 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Indecent disclosure (Ars Technica)

https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/02/indecent-disclosure-gay-dating-app-left-private-exposed-to-web/

------------------------------

From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 10:01:31 -0500
Subject: LibreOffice and Apache OpenOffice vulnerable to same bug; only one
  is fixed.

https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/02/path-traversal-bug-is-fixed-in-libreoffice-but-not-in-apache-openoffice/

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 07:54:32 -0700
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: There's No Good Reason To Trust Blockchain Technology
  (Bruce Schneier in WiReD)

EXCERPT:

In his 2008 white paper <https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf> that first
proposed bitcoin, the anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto concluded with: ``We have
proposed a system for electronic transactions without relying on trust.''
He was referring to blockchain, the system behind bitcoin cryptocurrency.
The circumvention of trust is a great promise, but it's just not true. Yes,
bitcoin eliminates certain trusted intermediaries that are inherent in other
payment systems like credit cards. But you still have to trust bitcoin --
and everything about it.

Much has been written about blockchains and how they displace, reshape, or
eliminate trust. But when you analyze both blockchain and trust, you quickly
realize that there is much more hype than value. Blockchain solutions are
often much worse than what they replace... [...]

https://www.wired.com/story/theres-no-good-reason-to-trust-blockchain-technology/

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 14:28:09 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Fire -- and lots of it: Berkeley researcher on the only way to fix
  cryptocurrency (Ars Technica)

Nicholas Weaver says bitcoin and other digital coins recapitulate 500 years
of failure.

https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/02/researcher-counts-the-reasons-he-wants-cryptocurrency-burned-with-fire/

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 11 Feb 2019 11:41:19 -0500
From: ACM TechNews <technews-editor@acm.org>
Subject: Navigating Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP: How Google Is Quietly Making
  Blockchains Searchable (Forbes)

Michael del Castillo. Forbes, 4 Feb 2019, via ACM TechNews, 11 Feb 2019

Last year, a team of open source developers quietly began loading data for
the entire Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains into Google's big data analytics
platform, BigQuery. With assistance from lead developer Evgeny Medvedev,
Google's senior developer advocate for Google Cloud Allen Day created a
suite of sophisticated software to search the data. In the past year, more
than 500 projects were created using these tools, collectively known as
Blockchain ETL (extract, transform, load), designed to do everything from
predicting the price of bitcoin to analyzing wealth disparity among ether
holders. Day demonstrated Blockchain ETL by examining the so-called hard
fork, or an irrevocable split in a blockchain database, which created a new
cryptocurrency -- bitcoin cash -- from bitcoin in the summer of 2017. Using
Google's BigQuery, Day discovered bitcoin cash, rather than increasing
microtransactions, was actually being hoarded among big holders of bitcoin
cash.

https://orange.hosting.lsoft.com/trk/click%3Fref%3Dznwrbbrs9_6-1e58cx21a206x069484%26

  [Google bites the bitcoin bits.  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 15:41:29 -0700
From: geoff goodfellow <geoff@iconia.com>
Subject: Crypto CEO dies holding only passwords that can unlock millions in
  customer coins

EXCERPT:

Digital-asset exchange Quadriga CX has a $200 million problem with no
obvious solution -- just the latest cautionary tale in the unregulated world
of cryptocurrencies.

The online startup can't retrieve about $145 million (C$190 million) in
Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ether and other digital tokens held for its customers,
according to court documents filed Jan. 31 in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Nor can
Vancouver-based Quadriga CX pay the C$70 million in cash they're owed.

Access to Quadriga CX's digital "wallets" -- an application that stores the
keys to send and receive cryptocurrencies -- appears to have been lost with
the passing of Quadriga CX Chief Executive Officer Gerald Cotten, who died
Dec. 9 in India from complications of Crohn's disease. He was 30.

RELATED STORIES

Bitcoin industry grapples with age-old problem of inheritance After the
bitcoin boom: hard lessons for cryptocurrency investors Bitcoin's `first
felon' faces more legal trouble Cotten was always conscious about security
-- the laptop, email addresses and messaging system he used to run the
5-year-old business were encrypted, according to an affidavit from his
widow, Jennifer Robertson. He took sole responsibility for the handling of
funds and coins and the banking and accounting side of the business and, to
avoid being hacked, moved the "majority" of digital coins into cold
storage. [...]

https://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Crypto-CEO-dies-holding-only-passwords-that-can-13590450.phpv3DYVI5w%2BRVhwt398MZ3%2BCLYwL/1Zjo2HyO/KM%3D

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 07 Feb 2019 07:53:41 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject: `Zero Trust' AI: Too Much of a Good Thing is Wonderful

Apparently, China's AI system for catching criminals is catching the "wrong"
criminals: high-level corrupt officials

This is one system that the U.S. should import to watch over our own
government officials -- especially those elected to public office and
responsible for all of the government surveillance on ordinary citizens.
Notice how quickly Congress responded to the disclosure of Robert Bork's
movie rental history with the "Video Privacy Protection Act" of 1988.

https://www.scmp.com/news/china/science/article/2184857/chinas-corruption-busting-ai-system-zero-trust-being-turned-being

SCMP, 04-05 Feb 2019
Is China's corruption-busting AI system 'Zero Trust' being turned off
for being too efficient?

Despite being restricted to just 30 counties and cities, artificial
intelligence system has already helped snare 8,721 officials
System cross-references big data to evaluate work and personal lives
of millions of government workers.

Stephen Chen https://www.facebook.com/Stephen.Chen.SCMP

What would you do if you had a machine to catch a thief? If you were a
corrupt Chinese bureaucrat, you would want to ditch it, of course.

Resistance by government officials to a groundbreaking big data experiment
is only one of many challenges as the Chinese government starts using new
technology to navigate its giant bureaucracy.

According to state media, there were more than 50 million people on China's
government payroll in 2016, though analysts have put the figure at more than
64 million -- slightly less than the population of Britain.

To turn this behemoth into a seamless operation befitting the information
age, China has started adapting various types of sophisticated technology.
The foreign ministry, for instance, is using machine learning to aid in risk
assessment and decision making for China's major investment projects
overseas.

Beijing has been developing a nationwide facial recognition system using
surveillance cameras capable of identifying any person, anywhere, around the
clock within seconds. In Guizhou, a cloud system tracks the movements of
every policeman with a live status report.

Major Chinese telecommunication companies such as ZTE have won government
contracts to develop blockchain technology to prevent the modification of
government data by unauthorised people or organisations.

President Xi Jinping has repeatedly stressed the necessity of promoting
scientific and technological innovations such as big data and artificial
intelligence (AI) in government reform.

The challenge is implementing that vision on the ground. Look no further
than an anti-corruption AI system dubbed by the researchers working it as
"Zero Trust".

Jointly developed and deployed by the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the
Chinese Communist Party's internal control institutions to monitor, evaluate
or intervene in the work and personal life of public servants, the system
can access more than 150 protected databases in central and local
governments for cross-reference.

According to people involved in the programme, this allows it to draw
sophisticated, multiple layers of social relationship maps to derive
behaviour analyses of government employees.

This was "particularly useful" in detecting suspicious property transfers,
infrastructure construction, land acquisitions and house demolitions, a
researcher said.

The system is not without its weaknesses, however.

"AI may quickly point out a corrupt official, but it is not very good
at explaining the process it has gone through to reach such a
conclusion," the researcher said. "Although it gets it right in most
cases, you need a human to work closely with it."

The system can immediately detect unusual increases in bank savings,
for instance, or if there has been a new car purchase or bidding for a
government contract under the name of an official or one of his family
or friends.

Once its suspicions have been raised it will calculate the chances of
the action being corrupt. If the result exceeds a set marker, the
authorities are alerted.

A computer scientist involved in the programme who asked not to be
named said that at that stage a superior could then contact the person
under scrutiny and perhaps help him avoid "going down the road of no
return with further, bigger mistakes".

The Zero Trust experiment has been limited to 30 counties and cities,
just 1 per cent of the country's total administrative area. The local
governments involved, including the Mayang Miao autonomous county in
Hunan province, are located in relatively poor and isolated regions
far away from China's political power centres.

Another researcher involved in the programme said the idea was to
"avoid triggering large-scale resistance among bureaucrats",
especially the most powerful ones, to the use of bots in governance.

Since 2012, Zero Trust has caught 8,721 government employees engaging
in misconduct such as embezzlement, abuse of power, misuse of
government funds and nepotism.

While some were sentenced to prison terms, most were allowed to keep
their jobs after being given a warning or minor punishment.

Still, some governments -- including Mayang county, Huaihua city and Li
county in Hunan -- have decommissioned the machine, according to the
researchers, one of whom said they "may not feel quite comfortable with the
new technology".

None of the local authorities responded to requests for comment.

Zhang Yi, an official at the Commission for Discipline Inspection of
the Chinese Communist Party in Ningxiang, Hunan province, said his
agency was one of the few still using the system.

"It is not easy -- we are under enormous pressure," he said, insisting that
the main purpose of the programme was not to punish officials but to "save
them" at an "early stage of corruption".

"We just use the machine's result as reference," Zhang said. "We need
to check and verify its validity. The machine cannot pick up the phone
and call the person with a problem. The final decision is always made
by humans."

Since Xi rose to power in 2012, more than 1.4 million party members
and government employees are estimated to have been disciplined,
including leaders like former security tsar Zhou Yongkang and former
Chongqing strongman Bo Xilai.

A party disciplinary official in Xiushui county, Jiangxi, who took
part in the Zero Trust project said no government officials were
willing to provide the necessary data.

"But they usually comply with a bit of pressure," said the official,
who asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue.

Disciplinary officials need to help scientists train the machine with
their experience and knowledge accumulated from previous cases. For
instance, disciplinary officials spent many hours manually tagging
unusual phenomena in various types of data sets to teach the machine
what to look for.

Some officials might fabricate data, but the machine can compare
information from different sources and flag discrepancies. It can even
call up satellite images, for instance, to investigate whether the
government funding to build a road in a village ended up in the pocket
of an official, the researchers said.

The system is still running in Xiushui, but its fate is
uncertain. Some officials have questioned the machine's right of
access to sensitive databases because there is neither a law nor
regulation authorising a computer or robot to do so.

No wonder the system is being decommissioned by counties and cities
that had signed up, and those still using it are facing enormous
pressure, with the researchers seeing little or no hope of rolling it
out nationwide.

The Zero Trust hump notwithstanding, artificial intelligence's foray
into other government sectors continues as the government is
determined to apply cutting-edge technology to its advantage. AI
clerks, for example, have been recruited in some courts to read case
files and help judges process lawsuits with higher speed and accuracy.

Last month, a court in Shanghai became the first ever in China to use
an AI assistant at a public hearing, Xinhua reported.

The machine, code-named "206", has the ability to record
conversations, show evidence such as surveillance camera footage when
mentioned by lawyers, and compare testimonies to help judges spot
discrepancies, the report said.

One judge was quoted as saying it would reduce the likelihood of a
wrong verdict.

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2019 15:45:03 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: FDA proposes a supply chain tracking overhaul (Fortune)

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) wants to transform the way it tracks
and traces medicines in an effort to protect supply chain security. The road
to achieving that goal runs straight through improved technology, the agency
writes in a regulatory notice. Commissioner Scott Gottlieb even busted out
the "B" word... "We're invested in exploring new ways to improve
traceability, in some cases using the same technologies that can enhance
drug supply chain security, like the use of blockchain. To advance these
efforts, the FDA recently recruited Frank Yiannas, an expert on the use of
traceability technologies in global food supply chains. He'll be working
closely with me on ways for the FDA to facilitate the expansion of such
methods, such as blockchain technology, to further strengthen the U.S. food
supply," he wrote in a statement.  /(FDA
<https://click.email.fortune.com/%3Fqs%3D51a73d1016def0c54ce8c32d0d2ae31fc729c67c51791aaed3df61eb3995b42696af864bd63fdc5f8fb24799ea342d226380f6ed4edcde37

"Using new innovations..." -- as opposed to old innovations, I guess.

Blockchain, magic as always:

``For the drug track-and-trace system, our goals are to fully secure
electronic product tracing, which provides a step-by-step account of where a
drug product has been located and who has handled it; establish a more
robust product verification to ensure that a drug product is legitimate and
unaltered; and to make sure that any party involved in handling drugs in the
supply chain must have the ability to spot and quarantine and investigate
any suspect drug. We're committed to staying at the forefront of new and
emerging technologies and how they might be used to create safer, smarter
and more trusted supply chains to better protect consumer safety and ensure
the integrity of the high quality of products they deserve.''

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 14:31:58 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Why CAPTCHAs have gotten so difficult (The Verge)

Demonstrating you're not a robot is getting harder and harder

https://www.theverge.com/2019/2/1/18205610/google-captcha-ai-robot-human-difficult-artificial-intelligence

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 14:30:02 -0800
From: Mark Thorson <eee@dialup4less.com>
Subject: Situation Normal, All Zucked Up (Japan News)

Facebook censors museum promotion for exhibit that contains a partially nude
marble statue from the first century of a woman and a nude bronze statue of
a man from the first century B.C.  No mention of whether this decision was
made by a human or an AIS (artificial idiot savant).

http://the-japan-news.com/news/article/0005525581

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 09:32:17 -0800
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: Google Began Censoring Search Results in Russia, Reports Say
  (Moscow Times)

via NNSquad
https://themoscowtimes.com/news/google-began-censoring-search-results-russia-reports-say-64423

  Google began complying with Russian requirements and has deleted around 70
  percent of the websites blacklisted by authorities, an unnamed Google
  employee told Russia's Vedomosti business daily Wednesday. An unnamed
  Roskomnadzor source reportedly confirmed the information to the paper.  On
  Thursday, a Roskomnadzor spokesman told the state-run RIA Novosti news
  agency that the regulator had established a "constructive dialogue" with
  Google over filtering content.  "We are fully satisfied with the dialogue
  at this time," Vadim Ampelonsky, the spokesman, was cited as saying.
  Google Russia declined to comment.

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2019 15:18:23 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Security Researcher Assaulted Following Vulnerability Disclosure
  (SecJuice)

Following a serious vulnerability disclosure affecting casinos globally, an
executive of casino technology vendor Atrient <http://www.atrient.com/>
researcher who disclosed the vulnerability at the ICE conference
<https://www.icelondon.uk.com/> vulnerability disclosure gone bad, one
involving the FBI, a vendor with a global customer base of casinos and a
severe security vulnerability which has gone unresolved for four months
without being properly addressed.

https://www.secjuice.com/security-researcher-assaulted-ice-atrient/

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 11 Feb 2019 11:30:15 -0800
From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>
Subject: NSO Group attacking investigators

Well, OK, it makes spyware for government use, so that's OK, right?

Except that they sell their spyware to some governments with questionable
records on human rights.

Now NSO Group seems to be spying on, and mounting various types of attacks
against, the researchers, journalists, and lawyers who are investigating the
case.
https://apnews.com/a1d1af4256c04cc5a36347667e966a14

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 07 Feb 2019 07:01:14 -0800
From: Henry Baker <hbaker1@pipeline.com>
Subject:  How does NYPD surveill thee? Let me count the Waze

"Google and Waze Must Stop Sharing Drunken-Driving Checkpoints, New York
Police Demand"

So what's good for the goose (NYPD) isn't so good for the gander (ordinary
citizens) ?

https://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/nyc-crime/ny-metro-license-plate-reader-grab-20190119-story.html

"NYPD's Domain Awareness System, which is linked to area squad cars equipped
with license plate readers that digitally capture 1,000 license plates every
day."

https://theintercept.com/2018/09/06/nypd-surveillance-camera-skin-tone-search/

"With access to images of thousands of unknowing New Yorkers offered up by
NYPD officials ... IBM was creating new search features that allow other
police departments to search camera footage for images of people by hair
color, facial hair, and skin tone."

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop-and-frisk_in_New_York_City

"[NYPD's stop-and-frisk] program became the subject of a racial profiling
controversy. The vast majority, 90% in 2017, of those stopped were
African-American or Latino ... 70% of all those stopped were later found to
be innocent... Research suggests that stop-and-frisk had few effects, if
any, on violent and property crime rates in New York City. "

https://www.brennancenter.org/blog/brooklyn-court-nypds-use-cell-phone-trackers-unconstitutional

"a New York State court in Brooklyn ruled that the NYPD's use of Stingrays
without a warrant was unconstitutional"

https://www.aclu.org/blog/privacy-technology/surveillance-technologies/new-nypd-drone-policy-represents-serious-threat

"NYPD's drones are outfitted with cameras equipped with sophisticated
technology and 4K resolution"

"NYPD's drone policy places no meaningful restrictions on police deployment
of drones in New York City and opens the door to the police department
building a permanent archive of drone footage of political activity and
intimate private behavior visible only from the sky"

https://www.businessinsider.com/nypd-surveillance-archives-2018-2

"In September, the New York City Municipal Archives launched an
unprecedented exhibit showcasing NYPD surveillance materials from 1960 to
1975 ... The exhibit, "Unlikely Historians: Materials Collected by NYPD
Surveil lance Teams", gives visitors a small taste of just how far NYPD
detectives went to infiltrate political organizations and investigate people
they considered a threat."

Michael Gold, *The New York Times*, 6 Feb 2019
Google and Waze Must Stop Sharing Drunken-Driving Checkpoints, New
York Police Demand
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/06/nyregion/waze-nypd-location.html

Google's navigation app Waze is known for providing real-time,
user-submitted reports that advise drivers about potential thorns in their
roadsides.

But one feature has Waze in conflict with law enforcement officials across
the country: how the app marks the location of police officers on the roads
ahead or stationed at drunken-driving checkpoints.

Over the weekend, the New York Police Department, the largest force in the
nation, joined the fray, sending a letter to Google demanding that the tech
giant pull that feature from Waze.

In the letter, which was first reported on by Streetsblog, the Police
Department said that allowing people to share the locations of sobriety
checkpoints impeded its ability to keep streets safe.

"The posting of such information for public consumption is irresponsible
since it only serves to aid impaired and intoxicated drivers to evade
checkpoints and encourage reckless driving," the department's acting deputy
commissioner for legal matters, Ann P. Prunty, wrote in the
letter. "Revealing the location of checkpoints puts those drivers, their
passengers, and the general public at risk."

Ms. Prunty added that people sharing the locations of sobriety checkpoints
on Waze might be breaking the law by trying "to prevent and/or impair the
administration" of the state's D.W.I. laws and that the department planned
to "pursue all legal remedies" to stop people from sharing "this
irresponsible and dangerous information."

It was not immediately clear what legal steps might be taken.

Waze does not allow drivers to specifically identify sobriety checkpoints.
But people who use the app's police reporting feature can leave detailed
comments on the cartoonish icon of a mustachioed police officer that pops
up.

Google said in a statement on Wednesday that safety was a "top priority" and
"that informing drivers about upcoming speed traps allows them to be more
careful and make safer decisions when they're on the road." ...

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2019 15:09:31 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: How Hackers and Scammers Break into iCloud-Locked iPhones
  (Motherboard)

In spring, 2017, a teenager walked up behind a woman leaving the Metro in
Northeast Washington DC and put her in a chokehold: "Be quiet," he said. And
"delete your iCloud." He grabbed her iPhone 6S and ran away.
<https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/district-man-sentenced-four-years-prison-robbery>

Last month, there were a string of similar muggings in Philadelphia In each
of these muggings, the perpetrator allegedly held the victim up at gunpoint,
demanded that they pull out their iPhone, and gave them instructions:
Disable `Find My iPhone', and log out of iCloud.
<https://web.archive.org/save/https://twitter.com/mattblaze/status/1085607855179382784>

In 2013, Apple introduced a security feature designed to make iPhones less
valuable targets to would-be thieves. An iPhone can only be associated to
one iCloud account, meaning that, in order to sell it to someone else (or in
order for a stolen phone to be used by someone new) that account needs to be
removed from the phone altogether. A stolen iPhone which is still attached
to the original owner's iCloud account is worthless for personal use or
reselling purposes (unless you strip it for parts), because at any point the
original owner can remotely lock the phone and find its location with Find
My iPhone. Without the owner's password, the original owner's account can't
be unlinked from the phone and the device can't be factory reset. This
security feature explains why some muggers have been demanding passwords
from their victims.
https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/8xyq8v/how-to-unlock-icloud-stolen-iphone

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 16:00:15 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Airline Passengers Potentially at Risk From Check-In Flaws (EWeek)

A relatively simple flaw in how some airlines provide e-ticketing
information could be exposing passengers to risk.

https://www.eweek.com/security/major-airlines-at-risk-from-check-in-system-flaw-wandera-reports

------------------------------

Date: 	Fri, 8 Feb 2019 09:36:27 -0600
From: 	David Strom via WebInformant <webinformant@list.webinformant.tv>
Subject: Privacy, transparency, and increasing digital trust

  [via Dewayne Hendricks via Dave Farber]

There is a crisis of trust in American democracy.

So begins a new report from the Knight Commission on Trust, Media and
Democracy organized by the Aspen Institute. It lays blame on our political
discourse, racial tensions, and technology that gives us all more access to
more commentary and news.  ``In 2018, unwelcome facts are labeled as fake.''
<http://csreports.aspeninstitute.org/Knight-Commission-TMD/2019/report>

Part of the problem with trust has to do with *the ease of cyber-criminals
to ply their trade*. Once relegated to a dark corner of the Internet, now
many criminals operate in the public view, selling various pieces of
technology such as ready-made phishing kits to seed infections, carders to
collect credit card numbers, botnets and web stressors to deliver DDoS
attacks, and other malware construction kits that require little to no
technical expertise beyond clicking a few buttons on a web form. A new
report from CheckPoint shows that anyone who is willing to pay can easily
obtain all of these tools. We truly have witnessed the growth of the
Malware-as-a-Service industry.
<https://www.checkpoint.com/downloads/resources/under-the-hood-of-cyber-crime-security-report-2019.pdf>

  [Long message PGN-truncated for RISKS.]

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 13:54:09 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: Many popular iPhone apps secretly record your screen without asking
  (TechCrunch)

Many major companies, like Air Canada, Hollister and Expedia, are recording
every tap and swipe you make on their iPhone apps. In most cases you won't
even realize it. And they don't need to ask for permission.

You can assume that most apps are collecting data on you. Some even monetize
your data without your knowledge. But TechCrunch has found several popular
iPhone apps, from hoteliers, travel sites, airlines, cell phone carriers,
banks and financiers, that don't ask or make it clear -- if at all -- that
they know exactly how you're using their apps.

Worse, even though these apps are meant to mask certain fields, some
inadvertently expose sensitive data.

Apps like Abercrombie & Fitch, Hotels.com and Singapore Airlines also use
Glassbox, a customer experience analytics firm, one of a handful of
companies that allows developers to embed session-replay technology into
their apps. These session replays let app developers record the screen and
play them back to see how its users interacted with the app to figure out if
something didn't work or if there was an error. Every tap, button push and
keyboard entry is recorded -- effectively screenshotted -- and sent back to
the app developers.

https://techcrunch.com/2019/02/06/iphone-session-replay-screenshots/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 09:37:37 -0800
From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>
Subject: Apple allows screen captures of everything that you do ...

In the wake of the Facetime bug comes news of even more insidious breaches
on your Apple devices.  Yes, *that* Apple, the one that makes so much of
having this "safe" and locked down environment, where you can only run
applications that they have approved, for your own protection.

iOS apps are able to scrape screenshots of, basically, everything you do,
and then send that back to, well, whoever they choose.
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/02/08/iphone-apps-record-your-screen-sessions-without-asking/ or
https://is.gd/kPmeUl

Without asking.

Without letting you know.

This isn't even a bug.  It seems to be part of the iOS system, and could
have valid uses (although what they are escapes me at the moment).

The fact that Apple, with it's closed and locked down system, allows this
sort of thing is rather disturbing ...

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 17:18:34 -0800
From: Lauren Weinstein <lauren@vortex.com>
Subject: HP's ink DRM instructs your printer to ignore the ink in your
  cartridge when you cancel your subscription (BoingBoing)

via NNSquad
https://boingboing.net/2019/02/08/inkjet-dystopias.html

  Inkjet printer manufacturers continue to pioneer imaginative ways to
  create real-world, desktop dystopias that make Black Mirror look
  optimistic by comparison: one such nightmare is HP's "subscription"
  printers where a small amount of money buys you ink cartridges that
  continuously communicate with HP's servers to validate that you're still
  paying for your subscription, and if you cancel, the ink stops working.

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 14:23:28 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: The perils of using Internet Explorer as your default browser
  (TechCommunity)

The perils of using Internet Explorer as your default browser
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-IT-Pro-Blog/The-perils-of-using-Internet-Explorer-as-your-default-browser/ba-p/331732

Also: Microsoft begs you to stop using Internet Explorer
https://www.engadget.com/2019/02/08/microsoft-internet-explorer-technical-debt/

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2019 00:50:58 -0500
From: Monty Solomon <monty@roscom.com>
Subject: Judge orders $150,000 in damages in GTA Online cheating case
  (Ars Technica)

Elusive mod menu let online players generate infinite amounts of in-game
cash.

https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2019/02/gta-online-cheat-tool-maker-ordered-to-pay-150000/

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 11 Feb 2019 10:02:42 -0800
From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>
Subject: Maybe he'll die of the plague and we can all breathe easier ...

Pete Hegseth is a host on the Faux News show "Fox and Friends."  On Sunday
he said that "My 2019 resolution is to say things on air that I say off
air. I don't think I've washed my hands for 10 years. Really, I don't really
wash my hands ever."
https://www.rawstory.com/2019/02/fox-friends-host-says-hasnt-washed-hands-10-years-germs-not-real-thing-cant-see/
or https://is.gd/dGvgCZ

He doesn't wash his hands because germs aren't real.

Of course, he also says that his lack of hygiene inoculates him, but if germ
theory isn't real, then that doesn't make any sense.

OK, this could just be yet another stupid celebrity story.  Except that it
means that there are people in positions of influence who are that stupid.
And who contribute to things like anti-vax movements while measles epidemics
are raging ...

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 19:24:11 PST
From: "Peter G. Neumann" <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: Re: Deep Fakes (RISKS-31.05)

Here's a  video on Deep Fakes
https://www.youtube.com/watch%3Fv%3DdVa-00GYHas

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 06 Feb 2019 07:53:30 +0800
From: Dan Jacobson <jidanni@jidanni.org>
Subject: Re: Google, you sent this to too many people, so it must be spam

And what if instead of
> Subject: Your personal Google+ account is going away on April 2, 2019
> Subject: Your personal Google  account is going away on April 2, 2019
is what it said? How many Seniors would have heart attacks?
Or I suppose seasoned seniors would have already thrown it in the spam
bucket as preposterous. Whilst other seniors might have thought that "+"
was like "TM" (trademark). (I had one senior ask me "What is this all
about?". I told them to calm down.)

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 08:54:41 -0800
From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>
Subject: Re: Passwords, escrow, and fallback positions (CoinDesk, RISKS-31.05)

> Date: Sat, 2 Feb 2019 12:23:46 -0800
> From: Rob Slade <rmslade@shaw.ca>

> Crypto exchange QuadrigaCX seems to be filing for bankruptcy.  It's got
> lots of money--locked up in cryptocurrency "cold storage."  The password
> was only known to the CEO.  The CEO died in December.

Came across a detailed article positing that QuadrigaCX was simply a Ponzi
or pyramid scheme, but the link now seems to be dead ...

https://medium.com/%40zeroresearchproof/quadrigacx-chain-analysis-report-pt-1-

------------------------------

Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2019 11:50:39 -0500
From: amu@alum.mit.edu (Aaron M. Ucko)
Subject: Re: Is it time for Linux? (Coe, RISKS-31.05)

> Debian received a total of 938 CVE's in 2018 with windows 10 only
> receiving 254.

I take your overall point, but dispute the validity of this particular
numerical comparison, since Debian contains over 51,000 packages, the vast
majority of which supply functionality Windows 10 doesn't itself offer (such
as two full-fledged office suites -- LibreOffice and Calligra Suite -- and
multiple e-mail clients).  Moreover, even when there is overlap, Debian
commonly offers far more options, with multiple web browsers, media players,
mail servers, etc.  This approach makes for a relatively broad overall
attack surface, but individual users and hosts will have more limited
exposure depending on what they actually run.

Aaron M. Ucko, KB1CJC (amu at alum.mit.edu, ucko at debian.org)

------------------------------

Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2019 02:23:42 -0500
From: Mark Brader <msb@vex.net>
Subject: Re: Minor Crimes and Misdemeanors in the Age of Automation
  (Goldberg, RISKS-31.05)

For those interested in this subject, I can highly recommend "Computers
Don't Argue", a 1965 science-fiction short story by Gordon R. Dickson.  (I'm
sure it's been mentioned in RISKS before.)

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 7 Feb 2019 12:53:02 -0500
From: Gabe Goldberg <gabe@gabegold.com>
Subject: An Enthralling and Terrifying History of the Nuclear Meltdown at
  Chernobyl (NYTimes)

In ``Midnight in Chernobyl,'' the journalist Adam Higginbotham reconstructs
the disaster from the ground up, recounting the prelude to it as well as its
aftermath.

https://nyti.ms/2UJKBos

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2019 16:48:57 +0000
From: Martyn Thomas <martyn@thomas-associates.co.uk>
Subject: Revised UK Code of Practice for testing Automated Vehicles

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/trialling-automated-vehicle-technologies-in-public

The cybersecurity principles are at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/principles-of-cyber-security-for-connected-and-automated-vehicles/the-key-principles-of-vehicle-cyber-security-for-connected-and-automated-vehicles

There is so much wrong with these documents that it is hard to know where to
start, but the consultation is open for comments:

https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/automated-vehicle-trialling-code-of-practice-invitation-to-comment

PLEASE respond to the request for comments!

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 14 Jan 2019 11:11:11 -0800
From: RISKS-request@csl.sri.com
Subject: Abridged info on RISKS (comp.risks)

 The ACM RISKS Forum is a MODERATED digest.  Its Usenet manifestation is
 comp.risks, the feed for which is donated by panix.com as of June 2011.
=> SUBSCRIPTIONS: The mailman Web interface can be used directly to
 subscribe and unsubscribe:
   http://mls.csl.sri.com/mailman/listinfo/risks

=> SUBMISSIONS: to risks@CSL.sri.com with meaningful SUBJECT: line that
   includes the string `notsp'.  Otherwise your message may not be read.
 *** This attention-string has never changed, but might if spammers use it.
=> SPAM challenge-responses will not be honored.  Instead, use an alternative
 address from which you never send mail where the address becomes public!
=> The complete INFO file (submissions, default disclaimers, archive sites,
 copyright policy, etc.) is online.
   <http://www.CSL.sri.com/risksinfo.html>
 *** Contributors are assumed to have read the full info file for guidelines!

=> OFFICIAL ARCHIVES:  http://www.risks.org takes you to Lindsay Marshall's
    searchable html archive at newcastle:
  http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/Risks/VL.IS --> VoLume, ISsue.
  Also,  ftp://ftp.sri.com/risks for the current volume
     or ftp://ftp.sri.com/VL/risks-VL.IS for previous VoLume
  If none of those work for you, the most recent issue is always at
     http://www.csl.sri.com/users/risko/risks.txt, and index at /risks-31.00
  Lindsay has also added to the Newcastle catless site a palmtop version
  of the most recent RISKS issue and a WAP version that works for many but
  not all telephones: http://catless.ncl.ac.uk/w/r
  ALTERNATIVE ARCHIVES: http://seclists.org/risks/ (only since mid-2001)
 *** NOTE: If a cited URL fails, we do not try to update them.  Try
  browsing on the keywords in the subject line or cited article leads.
  Apologies for what Office365 and SafeLinks may have done to URLs.
==> Special Offer to Join ACM for readers of the ACM RISKS Forum:
    <http://www.acm.org/joinacm1>

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 31.06
************************
